Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
In this episode I'm joined by Greg Mulholland, founder and CEO of Citrine Informatics, which
is applying AI to the discovery and development of new materials.
Greg and I start out with an exploration of some of the challenges of the status quo in
material science and what's to be gained by introducing machine learning into this process.
We discuss how limitations and materials manifest themselves and Greg shares a few examples
from the company's work optimizing battery components and solar cells.
We dig into the role and sources of data used in applying machine learning and materials
and some of the unique challenges to collecting it, as well as discuss the pipeline and algorithms
Citrine uses to deliver it service.
This was a fun conversation that spends physics, chemistry and of course machine learning,
and I hope you enjoy it.
All right, let's do it.
All right everyone, I am on the line with Greg Mulholland.
Greg is founder and CEO of a company called Citrine Informatics.
Greg and Citrine are focused on the application of AI to materials and chemistry and I'm really
looking forward to digging into that in this show.
Greg, welcome to this weekend machine learning and AI.
Thanks Sam, really glad to be here.
So tell us a little bit about your background, how do you get started working in this intersection
of materials and machine learning and AI?
Well, when I started my college career, I was really focused actually, I was focused
on electrical engineering.
So I was a computer engineer, I was doing processor design, but I actually became fascinated
by the fact that everything I kept running into in the electronics world and frankly everything
I kept running into among my mechanical engineering friends and product design friends was that
the materials that they had available to them were really the limiting factor in a lot
of the products that they that they loved.
And so I actually, because I had this programming background, because I had this computer engineering
background, I started thinking a lot about how can we use these machine learning techniques
and use these advanced analytics techniques to accelerate this really important field.
And I actually ended up going into the materials fields purely, I worked in a small semi conductor
company where we made materials for LEDs and power electronics.
And I saw exactly what I expected to, which was that we were really good at generating
huge volumes of data and frankly, pretty poor at using them effectively to make better
decisions.
And so when I met my, the person who became my co-founder, Bryce, he had a background
in machine learning for materials and we kind of had this magical overlap of his expertise
in analyzing data, my expertise in generating it.
And it turns out there's a lot of cool things you can do in the materials industry by combining
those two things.
You mentioned running into some limitations of materials early in your career.
What are some of those limitations and what are some of the ways that issues around materials
manifest both for us as consumers and for businesses?
Yeah, so for me, the first place I started was transistors.
I started looking at what is limiting our processor speed, what is limiting our ability to kind
of have these more advanced processors and technologies around us.
But as I looked into it more and more, I realized the fuel efficiency of every vehicle, the
fuel efficiency of a plane, the batteries that power our electronics, the medical devices
that we put inside our bodies, they're all limited by our ability to make them out of
things that do the job better than anything else.
And so for me, I look around the world and see a world filled with materials being used
for things in the shape of products, not a world of products that stand on their own.
Those really are the enabling technology of most things that we love today.
So maybe give us some examples of materials that you've had an opportunity to work with
and with Citrine.
Yeah, so we actually started in a bunch of different energy materials.
And so one of my passions has always been energy.
And using things, when you take something like a battery, for example, a battery is simply
several layers of material stacked in an appropriate way to create a highly engineered structure
of store energy.
And so one thing that Citrine has worked on quite a lot actually is figuring out how
to optimize the anode, the cathode, the electrolyte, and other internal components of batteries
to make them last longer to have higher voltage to be safer.
And that's been a real area for us where we've had some pretty exciting results because
the reality is none of us are happy with how our batteries perform.
And so being able to push those forward is an exciting thing to be able to do.
But we also have had an opportunity to discover new lightweight aerospace alloys.
So 3D print alloys that make a plane lighter or a gen engine perform more efficiently.
Because at the end of the day, the efficiency of these aircraft and the cost of running
them and the pollution they put out is limited very much by the weight and the performance
of the materials in them.
So we really worked very, very broadly.
And we've seen the power of AI across everything from new polymers and plastics, to new glasses,
to new textile materials, to new paints and coatings all the way to batteries and processors.
So it's really a very broad industry with huge impact.
I remember reading not too long ago, maybe six months ago or so, some articles about
some work that I think was Autodesk was doing in printing, 3D printing, it was like basically
the walls that separate the different cabins in an aircraft.
I forget the word for it.
Oh, the bulkhead.
The bulkhead.
Yeah, exactly.
You mentioned 3D printing.
Now, are you talking about the actual material that is used and the 3D printing is what
you worked on or something like they did with the generative design?
Yeah.
So I'm talking about the actual materials.
Because in the 3D printing world, the tradition has been and this makes perfect sense that you
have this list of aluminum alloys or steels or various metals or plastics that you have
used in a non-3D printing way, we have made things without using 3D printing for a long
time.
And the idea is, hey, why don't we just make a powder out of them, put them in a 3D printer,
and then we 3D print the part out of that material.
And it turns out that the way a 3D printer works is actually pretty different from a normal
manufacturing technique.
And so when you put those materials in, you get something very different out than you
would using a traditional manufacturing technique.
So we actually work with companies to help identify how do we modify these materials to actually
create a more performant, better material that's optimized for 3D printing rather than
just trying to take what we've used for 50 or 100 years and repurpose it into this totally
new manufacturing mode.
So you're applying AI machine learning to these types of problems?
So materials presents a pretty unique set of challenges for an AI system.
And the reason for that is the demands on materials are different than most other sort
of machine learning applications.
For example, if you take aluminum alloys, which is a very, almost every plane has a huge
number of different aluminum alloys in it because it's nice and light and it's very strong,
there's a big problem because when you talk most of the folks on your show have access
to many millions or tens of millions or even billions of data points about the things
they're trying to target.
When we talk about aluminum alloys, we're talking about maybe 5 to 10,000 data points
that have ever been rigorously measured.
And if you're talking about what any one person has, it can be just a few hundred or a few
thousand.
And so we're not in this world in materials and chemistry where we can sort of blindly
throw deep learning at a huge data set and then refine it over time and get some really
interesting good results.
In materials and chemistry, we suffer from a small data problem.
And by the way, every additional data point can cost millions of dollars.
And so it's not even cheap to generate new data.
It's actually a really big challenge.
And so as we develop AI systems that are tailored at the materials industry, we actually
have to focus on how do we use the limited data that we have available to us today to
solve a really hard problem.
And then the other piece, and there are a lot of differences.
Actually, before you move on from there, can you elaborate on when you say data point
in this context, what you're specifically referring to?
Sure.
And when I talk about a data point, there are some canonical measurements that people
do on materials.
So take, for example, an aluminum alloy, you would test the strength of that material,
how easy is it to break, how easy is it to scratch?
And you get single numbers out or curves out of those tests.
And there are typically a six to ten of them in any area that are kind of the critical
questions we ask before we use a material, how well does it fatigue, does it corrode?
Is it a material that will break if you smash something against it?
These are both for safety reasons and performance reasons, the critical questions we ask.
But in metals in particular, but in a lot of areas of high performance materials, you
can do a test to know how something ages that lasts for 10 or 100,000 hours.
And that is, understandably, a very expensive test to do.
To what extent do the data points associated with or that can be aggregated from the manufacturing
process plan of this?
So I don't know how long it takes to manufacture a given piece of aluminum, but assuming
that there are some number of steps and there are a whole variety of process parameters
and temperatures and humidities and things like this that go into determining how strong
and light the material will ultimately be, are those also part of what you consider to
be the data set or are you only looking at the properties of the final product?
So that is absolutely part of the data set, but in a very interesting way.
The way most materials companies work today is they have a factory or a plant that produces
a handful of different materials in incredibly high volumes.
And so if you're in Alcoa or you're a Corning or you're a 3M, when you have manufacturing
data, that manufacturing data is just terabytes and terabytes of data, petabytes of data over
days and weeks, about one material, it's just a tremendous amount of depth on one material.
So the big change that's come to the materials industry that's really interesting is that,
well, for some materials that's really important, the demands on these materials companies
is to come up with new materials faster.
And the example I always love to use is guerrilla glass.
So I think a lot of people are familiar with the Steve Jobs story about how that came
to be the front of the iPhone, but what people don't think about is that Apple wants
a new glass for their phone every year.
They're an incredibly demanding company and they are a company that wants to have the
highest performing product on the market.
And most materials companies take three to five years or more to develop a new product.
And so Apple is now saying to Corning, hey, I want a new glass every single year.
And Corning has to figure out a way to do that or else somebody else is going to come
in and provide that to Apple.
And so I think the big change that's come is that companies are very good at producing
what they produce very efficiently and where that used to be enough.
Now there's a real push to be able to innovate faster and to come up with that next generation
battery or next generation vehicle or next generation phone so much faster that really the
manufacturing information is helpful.
But you really need a diversity of data around many different materials to help optimize
for a particular use case.
Is the implication of what you're saying that you're the kinds of customers you're targeting
are not necessarily these, it's not kind of the production, the ongoing production of
existing material as much as this R&D process to get to newer types of materials.
That's exactly right.
So we're really focused on enabling these, the world's finest materials companies to move
much, much faster in the development and deployment of new materials.
And then of course we assist in the scale process and we assist in manufacturing optimization
and those sorts of things.
But where we're really differentiated is that ability to to take these relatively small
diverse development data sets and help companies come up with those new high performance signature
materials.
In some cases 50 to 70% faster than they would have been able to otherwise.
All right, and so given the way you've described this as kind of a small data problem, what
does the approach look like?
So the beautiful thing about materials is that we have a trick up our sleeve that most
other industries don't and that's that we have the laws of physics and chemistry in our
pocket.
You know, as scientists, we learned about how materials behave without ever seeing data.
And then at the end of our careers, as we got graduate degrees or went into industry,
we saw the data around materials help us refine what we believed about those materials
performance.
And we use machine learning in exactly the same way.
When we have a physical understanding of how atoms bond, for example, or how two elements
in a particular material interact, we use those formulae.
We use those relationships built into a machine learning system, built into a larger infrastructure.
But it turns out there are a lot of materials, mysteries in materials still.
There are a lot of areas of materials where we don't exactly know the fundamental phenomena
that are dominating.
And so what we say is for those, we have data.
We were able to use the small amount of data we have to connect the theory we understand
with the things we don't and more accurately fill in the gaps.
And then the beautiful part about it is the companies we work with are highly experimentally
oriented.
So they're constantly generating new data.
And so just like a human, you know, a machine learning system can come in and actually learn
alongside and be the perfect lab assistant.
It never forgets anything.
It's relatively unbiased.
It is able to surface new ideas and it's able to help humans come up with better hypotheses
which lead to better results faster.
Can you maybe help us make this a little bit more concrete by talking about in the context
of one of these examples that you've given, you know, what the process might look like,
what the pipeline might look like, what some of the systems and algorithms look like that
help you get to, you know, developing new materials more quickly?
Sure, absolutely.
There are, like I said, there are many, many places we've worked, but one in particular
that I always like to think about is with a solar cell company.
And so we worked on a specific class of solar cell and basically the goal was they wanted
to absorb light at a certain wavelength.
You know, they want to make sure they're absorbing light that's coming in from the sun.
They wanted to do it highly efficiently and they wanted it to have the specific stability
requirements.
You obviously don't want your solar cell to degrade over time.
And so what we did is we said, look, you have a lot of fundamental data about the solar
absorbance of a material.
So it's, you know, there's sort of all these electronic calculations that people have
done for years and years.
And actually, a Nobel Prize was awarded for coming up with these relationships.
And so we said, well, you have that knowledge to begin with.
So let's not reinvent that.
We don't need to learn the relationships that want to Nobel Prize from, you know, several
hundred data points.
We just can put that into the system.
And then what we do is we say the goal of what you have of your final product is the
solar cell with these six or eight or 10 particular properties.
In this case, it was about 10.
And what we did is we said the data that we have can help us bridge from the fundamental
relationship that we have.
So we'll put those equations in.
We're going to use that alongside data in a framework that I'm happy to describe in
a moment.
And then we're going to generate a set of hypotheses for what new materials might achieve
the goals you've set out to achieve.
And this is the real key because what we don't want to do and what AI is not likely to
do any time soon is to say, aha, here's your one right answer.
Go make it.
What AI is very good at doing in materials and chemistry is to say, here are some highly
probable candidates.
You should go try those.
A human will select a few to try them.
And then as new data is generated, that gets folded back into the algorithm and it's allowed
to obviously relearn and retrain and then make a set of new suggestions.
And that's very in line with the scientific method.
You hypothesize, you test, you conclude something and you come back with a new better hypothesis.
And the AI system simply helps you do that much more efficiently.
One of the themes that surfaces on the podcast pretty frequently is this idea that you're
poking out a little bit, some of the approaches like deep learning take the approach that you
just alluded to, take a whole bunch of data independent of any laws of physics or chemistry
and throw it at this deep learning model and let it try to figure everything out.
Whereas you've incorporated those laws of physics and chemistry, can you talk a little bit
about how you have made those to coexist in a machine learning framework?
Yeah, absolutely.
So we have a couple things that we truly believe in as sort of a philosophical basis here.
And I honestly think we've seen a lot more of this emerge in the AI community over
the last year or two because I think we as a community realize how important they are.
The first is we believe in interpretability.
I think one of the big challenges in deep learning actually is that you can throw a lot of
data at things.
You can sort of see what some of the neurons are doing, but a lot of times there's a big
black box component to what's going on because we sort of manually insert these relationships
in or automatically insert them, but in certain known relationships into these systems, understanding
how they construct themselves is really important.
The second thing that we really believe in which drives the answer to your question is uncertainty.
So one of the big problems in AI for scientific applications is that when you talk about things
like recommendation engines, if Netflix tells you you're going to like something with four
stars and you end up hating it, your plane doesn't fall out of the sky.
It's okay if Netflix is to be wrong every once in a while and it can sort of narrow itself
in on your preferences over time.
For us, we work with scientists who believe that there's a, who understand uncertainty
and who understand when a model is confident or not.
And so what we actually do is we build these very large graph networks where rather than
having a black box situation like deep learning, we're building a graph that's not so different
from a deep net, but has a, has nodes that we can control in it.
Some of those nodes are new data.
Some of those nodes are machine learning systems, whether they're deep learning, we'll use
deep learning for things like images or, or more sort of standard machine learning systems,
you know, forests or, or neural nets or what have you, we can really put anything into
these networks.
And then we can also conveniently put in, you know, arginious equations or a reaction
equation, reaction rates.
I mean, in some ways we sort of program high school chemistry and college chemistry into
the base levels of these nodes so that when the system is constructing these networks
and is testing nodes and is sort of moving through the possible models it can build, it's
able to access things that are not just, you know, the, the billion images of cats and
not cats that we have labeled, it's, it's actually looking at what is the, what is the underlying
chemistry and how does that connect between data and chemistry to minimize the uncertainty
of the model.
So we actually use uncertainties as a first class member of our system.
And that really helps us drive kind of model quality, hypothesis generation in this larger
framework of kind of graphically connected machine learning models.
Is there a simple example or way to explain the way the system uses and navigates these
nodes that, you know, can help us really generate some intuition for how it works?
Yeah, absolutely.
So, so, you know, I'll take a battery as an example.
So a battery is basically three layers of material, an anode, a cathode and an, and an electrolyte.
And those three materials are stacked cathode, electrolyte, anode, and the, the charge
moves between the two ends and that's how you, how you have a battery work.
The three materials you choose are critical because, you know, if they're not compatible
with each other or if they don't take advantage of each other's strengths, you're not going
to have a perform, perform in battery.
And so, that at a very high level is, is very simple, but if you, if you think as a material
scientist what about this problem, you actually realize there's a stacked set of, of problems
that all build up together.
And what I mean by that is each of those materials is composed of atoms.
And so when you talk about lithium ion, obviously lithium is the, is the primary ion that's
moving around in, in that battery.
Now the atom you choose is important.
There are sodium batteries, there are aluminum batteries, there are batteries based on
many elements and we have, and so, so the atoms matter, but atoms aren't all that matter.
So actually how the atom is bond together matters a lot.
And so that's sort of the next layer up is how these things interconnect with one another.
And then you can start thinking about, well, if they bond together one to one, what happens
when you zoom out a little further and say what happens over, you know, a micrometer or
what happens over a centimeter, you know, obviously you don't have perfect bonding, nothing
is perfect.
So you have things that are happening over much larger length scales.
And then you finally talk about what happens when you layer these three materials together
and how do you optimize them all at once.
And so what we do is we say we have good understanding about what a lithium atom is.
We have a very good understanding about how a lithium ion bonds to an oxygen ion.
We have a very good understanding of how things happen over large distances.
But what we don't have a good understanding of as a materials community is how to explicitly
connect all of that knowledge at the different length scales in such a way that allows us
to draw really accurate conclusions and builds really accurate models of how these materials
will behave.
And so what that means is we're really good at understanding one little piece of the
problem, but it's very hard to zoom out and see the whole forest and understand what
the whole structure is.
And so we actually use, when I say we build these graphical models, the graphical models
are actually combinations of data and these underlying sort of single length scale models
to allow us to connect the data and ML allows us to connect to the different length scales
and actually create better models that incorporate everything from high school chemistry.
How many electrons does this particular element have all the way up to what happens
if I leave it in the oven for an extra hour, all the way up to what happens when I seal
it in there with two other materials and how well does the battery perform over time?
In the case of an example like that, what would be you've got some of these nodes in this
graph represent data points about the materials and the atoms and the things that you've described.
And then some others represent machine learning models.
What would those be and what's the relationship that they play in this graph?
Yeah, so the machine learning models are what will say things like, well, we understand
how the lithium atoms all behave one to one.
And we understand how bonding happens at a very large scale, but we don't understand
how swapping 10% of the lithium out for silicon might actually affect the overall performance
of the battery.
We can't know how that propagates through the system.
And so that's where we use data and machine learning to identify trends across these
data sets that contain diverse materials data that allows us to zero in on some specific
higher performance.
And the other thing that it allows us to do is to actually answer a question that most
AI is actually quite bad at answering.
And in most AI systems, the goal is to identify things that are pretty similar to other things,
facial recognition.
It's looking for faces that are similar to faces it's seen before.
For us, R.A.I. systems are actually trying to reorient things and look for new materials
outside of the current space.
And so it might be that we're looking at lithium and silicon together and then all of
a sudden, somebody has a great idea that putting some carbon in there could be a real help.
Well, if no one's ever used carbon before, you have to have a really crafty way of being
able to represent what that looks like so that the machine learning system can lock
onto any signal at all.
And so the representations among these hierarchical units allows us to say to insert changes
like that and actually begin to push the envelope of what's possible rather than just saying,
oh yes, this is 50% between two things I've seen.
I'm just going to take a sort of do a logistic regression between the two and take the midpoint
and have that be the result of my prediction.
So is it fair to say that the nodes in this graph ultimately represent some kind of material
or chemical characteristics, some of which you have direct data about and so you can
insert those data points directly and others you're using machine learning to infer based
on some other data that you have.
So it's kind of like a hierarchical graph of these characteristics, is that fair?
That's precisely correct.
Okay.
And so ultimately then you are applying addition on another level of machine learning
on top of this graph to try to infer or learn about the relationships between these
different characteristics and then predict where you might find new materials that produce
some desired result.
That's exactly right.
So you can imagine in the guerrilla glass example because we all know what the demands
are on that, right?
We don't want it to break, we don't want it to scratch, we want it to be nice and transparent
and pretty light and that's more or less the properties that you're looking for.
And so what we would say is let's put those targets into the system and then use an optimization
system, whether AI based or not and it kind of depends on the use case, whether that
makes sense, to actually optimize the materials, the processing, the input elements, sort of
everything about that glass to achieve the thinnest, lightest, strongest, most scratch-resistant
guerrilla glass possible and we do that hand in hand with a scientist because it turns
out that scientific expertise is absolutely critical.
And so as that optimization step, are you, is the system spinning out other materials
or compounds or is it rather saying, you know, you're looking for something that has,
you know, this degree of distance to this other material or, you know, is it relative
or is it giving you absolute things to investigate?
Oh, it actually gives you absolute things to investigate.
So in the case of a glass, we would give you a specific chemical formula and we would
potentially give you even processing steps that we believe to be the things that will
achieve the goal you're trying to achieve.
And we return those, I mean, this is all part of the software system, right?
This isn't human driven.
But the scientist on the other end, the person who's developing that next generation
material will look at that list and say, well, you know, it turns out you've suggested
a glass that has lead in it.
Well, that might be a great glass.
I don't really want to make it.
So we're going to avoid that one.
And we are going to move on and say, actually, these other three are very interesting.
So the scientists will then exert their intuition to say, I'm going to go make those now.
And when I make them, I will return the data into the system, which obviously helps us
map the data space better and helps us provide even better recommendations.
So it's a sequential learning system that allows us to work hand in hand with the scientists
to develop those next generation products.
What is that process for working with scientists look like from a kind of timeline perspective?
You know, it really varies based on the domain.
There are materials in chemistry is just an incredibly diverse industry.
I think it's easy from the outside to say, well, you know, it's kind of one, one model
of the industry.
Especially more than a dozen subgroups.
In most cases though, we first work with a scientist to identify the data that underpins
what they believe to be the most important signals and trends in their industry.
These scientists, in some cases, spent decades working in a specific area and know their
industry incredibly well or know their area incredibly well.
And so we always start there.
And then what we do is we say, you know, look, we can build these, we just called them
first pass models.
We kind of help them construct these, the first version of the graph.
And then we allow them to begin to edit the graph.
We allow them to insert nodes.
We allow them to create latent variables, add additional data and really strike up a scientific
conversation with the system that refines over time.
The first little bit of somebody using our system is not directly going to experiment.
It's learning how to operate this powerful new tool.
And then over time, they begin to add data.
They begin to gain confidence in why the system is recommending what it's recommending.
And once they have that confidence, it's very easy for us to say, hey, you know, why
don't you go try to make this, make this material, give it a try.
And I'll tell you what, it almost never works perfectly the first time.
There's, you know, the model is never right on target the first time.
But what it does is it creates this back and forth conversation between the AI system
and the expert scientists to be able to say, you as an expert scientist are not perfect
every time.
Humans are deeply flawed in many ways with respect to data.
And an AI system is, frankly, deeply flawed, no matter how hard you try in a completely
understanding what humans have learned about chemistry.
But as a team, there's a really powerful back and forth effect where the AI system can
learn and have additional information injected into it.
And the human can release some of that data analysis burden and start to think creatively
about how to solve these really difficult problems.
Have you run into any use cases that the system just isn't able to handle yet?
And if so, what are, you know, what are the sources of those limitations?
You know, we haven't run into anything that is a complete and abject failure.
I think one of the reasons for that is that there's a, that there's a sort of assumption
that it is an iterative process.
And so that's a, you know, if you sort of understand it to always be a hill climb in
some ways, you know, you kind of don't, taking failure is, you know, saying it failed
completely is sort of impossible.
Because I will say, you know, one of the things that, that we found to be very interesting
is that there are some areas of materials where there is so little knowledge or there is
such a breadth of, of theory about why something happens that it can actually be really challenging
to, to use an AI system to do, to have a great effect.
And an example there I'd use is superconductors.
So this is a type of material that when you cool it down to below liquid nitrogen temperature
or even colder, they are wires that have no resistance.
So you know, you could use them to very efficiently transmit electricity, for example, and this
is something they're used for.
But there are a few different classes of superconductors.
Pretty much any time a new superconductor is discovered, a Nobel Prize is awarded.
Which the theory that underpins it, there are some very strong theories, but the way that
we capture data and the way that we understand these things to work is wholly incomplete.
And so I think there are certainly areas of materials where, you know, we just don't
have the, the grounding to, to build an AI system that is going to really kind of break
into that new space because the data landscape isn't dense enough and, and the, the underlying
theory that we would normally inject is frankly not so well understood that we can do that
with great confidence.
And so I would actually say that that's one of the, one of the biggest challenge areas
and there are a few, a few areas like that where, you know, they're new enough that, you
know, we just don't have established knowledge theory or data that allows us to, to really
model these things well.
How has the, the product evolved like, what was your MVP and how have you iterated over
time to get to the platform that you have now?
So when we, when we first started, the MVP was my, my co-founder Bryce sitting behind
a keyboard, kind of manually tuning up machine learning models and in whatever appropriate
tool set worked at the time and, and really was working with primarily academic groups
to, to show that, that there might even be some value here, you know, most materials
companies see their, their development data as their crown jewels and, and I literally
every company they've talked to has referred to it that way and this is at this point hundreds
of companies.
And, and they're, the, the interesting thing about it is, you know, working with these
academic groups allowed us to really get an understanding of the development workflow
in a very open, open way.
What we realize though is that as we went into companies, there, there's this, uh, skits
of frenia to what they want.
On one hand, everyone is hungry to use AI in a new way.
Everyone is hungry to have AI be their savior in one way or another and, you know, I'm,
I don't need to tell you about the buzz in the industry, right?
You know, it's, it's on everybody's, uh, everybody's lips right now.
But the, the other side of it is in the materials and chemicals industry, the presence and,
and organization of data is actually in general quite poor, um, you know, there are only a few
different, uh, well, that there basically no company has a very large database, you
know, a lot of Google and search results or, you know, any Silicon Valley company and
their digital data, most materials companies have been collecting data on, you know, and
in manual logbooks for the better part of 50 or 100 years.
And so there's data out there, but in general, it's pretty tough to get at.
And so actually what we've, what we've learned is that the AI tools are really nice and incredibly
powerful and, and drive a lot of value, but actually the first step as we work with people
is to go into these organizations and say, hey, you need to start organizing your data
in a way that makes it available to advanced analysis, whether it's AI or even just, you
know, very simple sorts of visualizations, um, and to actually go and, and build the platform
that will allow people to organize materials and data, uh, materials and chemistry data
in a rational way, uh, has been a layer of the platform we've had to, to build and continue
to refine because it turns out AI without any underlying data is not super useful.
Uh, and most of these companies don't have the, the sort of presence in house yet to, to
do that themselves. And so we had, we had to add this extra layer, which has been great
because what it means is as a company, we are able to both create sort of the instantaneous
value of we're helping you organize this stuff for the long term, we're helping you create
long term value. And then we also get to come in with the really cool AI results and say,
oh, by the way, we're helping you generate your next, you know, your next generation products
in, in five or seven business units and, and look at how cool these results are, look
at how excited your scientists are. So in some ways, you know, I think we've stumbled
into a really cool business here because we get to be an ally to everyone in the organization,
which is frankly usually rare in B2B businesses. Great. Well, uh, this has been super interesting.
Are there any additional thoughts that you'd like to share? You know, I think the, the,
the last thought I'd like to share is, is just that there's, you know, when we started
the company, people, we had, you know, we, we obviously have some great investors. We're
super excited about them. Um, but when we were originally pitching a great number of investors
said generalized AI is going to eat your lunch. That is the future and, and the specialty
domain specific stuff really is never going to have any value. And, and, and I think, you
know, I think you've seen, you know, just based on, on the, the guests in your show and,
you know, I know we've seen that the resurgence of domain specific AI has showed that AI is
an incredibly powerful tool. It's an incredible way to do a lot of, of fast tasks, faster
and it's an incredible way to kind of optimize how we behave in a lot of ways. But in materials
and chemistry, the, the domain specificity is incredibly important. And, and so as we've
kind of grown as a company, one thing I've realized is that, you know, kind of sharing
that message with people and understanding that, yeah, you know, what you can do with
scikit-learn is interesting. What you can do with these open source tools is interesting
and powerful. But if you really want to go deep, merging domain expertise and, and you
kind of AI expertise, ML expertise, if you can merge those effectively, you can have
a super powerful tool that's really differentiated from what anyone else has. And so I guess if I,
you know, kind of were to send a message to your listeners, it's, you know, you don't
have to be Andrew Ng to go and dominate the materials or to dominate a segment of AI.
You have to bring your world view and your expertise and combine it with a really effective
AI strategy. And that is the way to actually have real world impact. Or at least that's
what we've seen. And, and it's led to some really exciting results. And I couldn't be more
proud to have been part of this team, which is really a broken new ground in materials
and chemistry. Oh, that's awesome. Well, Greg, I really appreciate you taking the
time to share what you're up to. I will, I'm looking forward to kind of keeping track
of, of Citrine and the work that you're doing. Well, thanks a lot, Sam. It's been, it's
been awesome to be on. I love your show. And I've really enjoyed our chat this morning.
So thank you very much. Thank you. All right, everyone. That's our show for today.
For more information on Greg or any of the topics covered in this episode, head on over
to twimlai.com slash talk slash 148. Thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
