Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
Today's episode is part of a series of shows on the topic of AI for the benefit of society
that were excited to have partnered with Microsoft to produce.
In this show, we're joined by Lucas Joplin and Zach Parisa.
Lucas is the chief environmental officer and Microsoft, spearheading the company's
five-year $50 million AI for Earth commitment, which seeks to apply machine learning and
artificial intelligence across four key environmental areas, agriculture, water, biodiversity, and climate
change.
Zach is co-founder and president of Sylvia Terra, a Microsoft AI for Earth grantee whose mission
is to help people use modern data sources to better manage forest habitats and ecosystems.
In our conversation, we discussed the ways that machine learning and AI can be used to
advance our understanding of forests and other ecosystems and support conservation efforts.
We discussed how Sylvia Terra uses computer vision and data from a wide array of sensors
like LIDAR, combined with AI, to yield more detailed small area estimates of the various
species in our forests.
And we also discussed another AI for Earth project, Wild Me, a computer vision based
wild life conservation project that we discussed with Jason Holmberg back in episode 166.
Before diving in, I'd like to thank Microsoft for their support of the show and their sponsorship
of this series.
Microsoft is committed to ensuring the responsible development and use of AI and is empowering
people around the world with this intelligent technology to help solve previously intractable
societal challenges, spanning sustainability, accessibility, and humanitarian action.
Learn more about their plan at Microsoft.ai.
Enjoy the show.
Alright, everyone.
I am here with Lucas Joppa and Zach Parissa.
Lucas is the CEO of Microsoft.
No, not that CEO, but the Chief Environmental Officer.
And Zach is the co-founder and president of Sylvia Terra.
Lucas and Zach, welcome to this Week in Machine Learning and AI.
Thanks for having us here.
It's a huge pleasure.
Great to be here.
Awesome.
So let's dive right in.
We'll be talking about Microsoft's AI for Earth initiative.
But before we jump into that, Lucas, as the CEO of Microsoft, I think I'm going to run
this one all day.
Tell me a little bit about your background on how you came to be the CEO of Microsoft.
Yeah, sure.
So I would say I never dreamed of being the CEO of anything.
That's for sure.
Particularly in the standard context of it, much less what it means in my specific title
is the Chief Environmental Officer.
I mean, I grew up kind of in far northern rural Wisconsin.
I was obsessed with being outside.
And my approach to kind of school and life in general was, how can I get done with anything
that I need to get done with so I can go play out in the woods?
I think I thought I was going to grow to be a game warden or something similar to that.
And technology was not a big factor in my life as well.
I mean, I've never had a computer growing up or a TV or anything else.
And I eventually found my way into university, started discovering that I was really interested
in thinking about a career in environmental science, studied wildlife ecology, again,
not the traditional career path for somebody at Microsoft.
One often spent a little time in the United States Peace Corps in Malawi working for the
Department of National Parks and Wildlife.
Then came back and did my PhD in ecology.
And it was really then that I kind of started to put together this, the two kind of incredible
ages that I think we're alive in today and the way kind of ICR world, which is that we're
doing business here at the intersection of the information age.
And then this also incredible age of negative human impacts on Earth's natural systems.
And it was during my PhD, I just was really struggling with what's the right way to do science
at a way that scales with the scale of the problem.
And that's when computing, programming, machine learning, all kind of came flooding into my
life at the same time and it up at Microsoft and Microsoft Research leading programs in
environmental and computer science and then things just progressed from there.
You actively involved in academic research and a number of organizations, can you share
a little bit about that?
We talked about it a bit earlier.
Yeah, sure, once you live long enough in the academic world, the kind of the Pavlovian
response towards some of the rewards that that environment installs in you, I mean, I'm
not proud to say it, but since I'm not proud, I should just say it, I'm still that academic
that checks their citations every day when I wake up over breakfast.
So while I definitely have a much larger and more expanded purview of roles and responsibilities
here at Microsoft, I still think, you know, science is important, science is what drives
all of the kind of environmental sustainability decisions that we make here at this company.
It's what ultimately led to why we invested in this program AI for Earth.
And I firmly believe that you have to understand the details.
If you're going to, if you're going to try to lead an organization somewhere with a big
picture of vision, if you don't understand the details, if you don't understand the science,
then it's difficult to do that.
And just the way my brain works, the easiest way to understand the details is to kind of
get your hands dirty and be in there with the rest of the world kind of trying to build
the solutions of the future.
And so that's where academic research for me comes in.
It's just that opportunity to actually like go really deep and work on kind of both sides
of the equation.
I still publish in the environmental science literature.
I still publish in the computer science literature and, you know, the most depressing thing about
that is how few of us there are that do both of those things.
And you know, it's one of the things that I spend a lot of my time every day doing is
just trying to bring those two worlds together.
And so yeah, and publishing is a fantastic way to do that.
And Zach, you're a forester.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I didn't know that was a thing beyond the Subaru.
Right.
Sure enough.
Yeah.
It is absolutely a thing.
And kind of an exciting, I think, there's kind of a rebirth in forestry now.
And so I'm hoping that it'll become a more broadly known thing here before too long.
But tell us about your background and about Soviet terror.
Yeah.
Sure.
So my, the start of my story actually isn't terribly dissimilar than Lucas's.
So I grew up in North Alabama, though, not Wisconsin, but in a, in kind of this funny place
that was like North Alabama's, you know, covered in woods, but it also has a NASA installation
in Huntsville, Alabama.
And my youth was basically just spent in the woods.
When I, when I was in first grade, I wanted to be an entomologist.
When I was in third grade, I wanted to be a zoologist.
I went through, you know, geology and so on and so forth until I finally met somebody
who was a forester.
And I, you know, until you meet somebody and you have somebody sort of walk you through
what that is, it's, it's kind of an obscure field.
And what that is to me is sort of the confluence of economics and ecology for me.
And so it was this brilliant opportunity at the time where it lets the way that I saw
it because it brought together everything that I cared about, you know, from the ecology
side, you know, insects and soils, geology, the interconnected nature of all of those,
all of those systems.
And, but also the economic side, sort of, you know, not only what, what the forest is,
but also what we want it to be and how we value that as a society and how we mean to take
it from one place now, which is where we find it today, to where we want it to be and
sort of what we, you know, what we believe we need.
And so that was, that was my entrance into it.
And I believed I would carry that out.
I would, I would live and work as a forester by managing some tract of land for some owner
more than that's public or private, but that I would be focused on that landscape.
And going through undergrad, what I became really interested in were oddly and a surprise
to, you know, to me was the quantitative aspects of certain problems like insects in a forest.
When I first got into forestry, you know, my freshman year, there was a massive outbreak
of southern pine beetle in the US south and it was killing lots of pine trees.
And so that was a really compelling problem to me because it relates so much not only
to the, you know, that trees themselves in the beetle, but also how we've managed them
historically and sort of what, how that impacts local economies, that type of thing.
And so, so I really, I started into pheromone plume modeling of all things in a forested
system and trying to take measurements of concentrations of pheromones in locations
and backtrack to where that originated from in the winter to try and deal with these
beetles more, more effectively. And what that, what I learned from that or what I sort
of, what I gathered was, was that there was this incredible ability to scale up my interests
to, to, you know, to still focus on the things that I loved most, but to look at them with
a different lens and to potentially affect change in a different way than I conceived
of before. And so, you know, I wound up doing work in Brazil. You know, I was really interested
in tropical forestry. I took some time off from undergrad to do that and, you know, worked
in, like other areas Bolivia in, in South America. And there I got to see situations where
people were dependent on different aspects of, of land in different ways and more direct
ways than I think I was familiar with from my youth in, in the US South, where, you know,
they were hurting animals. They were collecting nuts, fruits, things like that. They're collecting
fuel wood to, to stay warm to cook. And they were also wanting to, to sell wood into a market
and to, to develop as, as communities. And so forestry is about trade-offs. You, you
know, there are a lot of things that you, we can do. And there are a lot of potential
futures that we have before us. But we have to address the complexity of those systems
in more comprehensive ways than we have in the past. There's far more than just a timber
market now. There's far more than just to concern for delivery of wood to build houses.
And that's, you know, when we spoke just a little bit before, but that was experienced
very acutely here in the Pacific Northwest when people were confronting the issue of whether
we had enough spotted owl habitat or spotted owls themselves or, or not. And whether
we had managed appropriately in the past to accommodate those and, you know, and what,
and everything that's related to that, to that species, all the habitats and other species
that are related or whether we haven't, whether we've failed. And if we needed to go back
and reconsider the ways that we make decisions. And that was, that was a really freighted conversation.
That was, it, it brought, I mean, people to the, to kind of boiling points. And that
was before my time, really, before I really entered into the profession in any meaningful
way. But, but that type of conversation goes on now. And it's even more complicated. And
there are more issues than, and more dimensions that we have to consider than there were then.
And to have constructive conversations, we have to have information to, to inform those,
those discussions, to facilitate the kind of communication that yields solutions that
people can live with. And I'm presuming that that need is what led you to found Sylvia
Tara. It is. Yeah. Absolutely. And so what is Sylvia Tara? What is the, what do we do? Yeah.
Failing to answer the questions here. So Sylvia Tara is, we, we provide information,
just like what I, you know, what I was speaking about there. Our objective is to help people
use modern data sources, like remotely sensed information from satellites, from, you know,
from aerial bases, from UAVs, and modern modeling techniques to, to help get more resolution
on information and get more accuracy and precision on information, not only just about trees,
but, but about habitats and, and beyond. And so that's, that's the focus of our company.
You know, we've been at this for about nine years. A lot of the folks that we work with
are timber companies. We also work with non like environmental NGOs. We work with government
agencies. And all of them, you know, they have effectively the same questions. They have
very similar, similar needs. And so, you know, initially, up until now, we've been providing
data project to project to help them answer those critical questions that they, that they
confront on a regular basis. And the, you know, I guess the, the reason I'm, I'm in this
room with you all here today is that we, we were able to start working with Microsoft AI
for Earth, and to, to begin to scale and expand that work, to build a, a foundational data
set that we can, that we can start to use to answer these, these questions and to build
on to, to improve our ability to manage for the future.
That's maybe a good segue to taking a step back and look as what is AI for Earth?
Sure. Well, I mean, thinking the context of this conversation, you can think about it.
What is AI for Earth? It's why a reformed forester who's now the co-founder of a startup
and a reformed wildlife ecologist who's now the chief environmental officer at Microsoft
are at a table talking with you on twimble. I feel like we're in this recursive
process, right? Yeah. No, exactly that. I can't even see you guys anymore. I'm just staring
at myself in an infinity mirror here. So what AI for Earth is is as of Tuesday of this
week, a one-year-old program. Okay. Happy birthday. Thank you. Thank you. It was fantastic.
We spent it celebrating with our colleagues at National Geographic in Washington, D.C.
In the woods? Yeah. Unfortunately, no, but at the founder's table of one of the most,
you know, iconic and exploration-driven organizations in the world, right? And so it was an incredible
time. But what AI for Earth is is a five-year $50 million commitment on behalf of Microsoft
to deploy our 35 years. It will actually a little bit more than 35 years of fundamental
research in the core fields of AI and machine learning to deploy those to affect change
in these forkey areas of environment that we care deeply about, which is agriculture,
water, biodiversity, and climate change. And the reason that we're doing that is because,
you know, we recognize that at Microsoft, you know, I already spoke about this kind of
tale of two ages, really. This time of this information age and this time of incredible
and negative impacts of human activities on Earth's natural systems. And you look and
you realize that as a society, we're facing almost an unprecedented challenge. We somehow
have to figure out how to mitigate and adapt to changing climates, insure resilient water
supplies, sustainably feed a human population rapidly growing to 10 billion people all while
stemming this ongoing and catastrophic loss of biodiversity that we see around the world.
And we've got to do that while ensuring that the human experience continues to improve
all around the world for everybody that, you know, economic growth and prosperity continue
to grow. And so, you know, that's why I say it's an unprecedented challenge. I mean,
the scope and the scale are just incredible. And if you look at, um, at the scope and
scale, the problem, and you step back and you ask yourselves, uh, the same question as
a company that I asked myself during my PhD, which is, well, what are the things that are
growing in the same exponential fashion as the scale and complexity of that challenge
of our environmental challenge? Well, pretty much the only trends that are that are happening
in an analogous fashion are in the tech sector. And particularly in the broader field of
AI and the more narrow kind of machine learning learning approaches that are getting a lot
of attention today. And so, um, and so that's when we decided to put together this program
to actually say, hey, you know what, we've been investing as a company for over a decade
at the intersection of environmental science and computer science. I led research programs
in our blue sky research, um, division called Microsoft research for, for a fair number of
years on that. But then the technology reached a point, the criticality of the, of the societal
challenge, I think reached a point that it was time for a company like Microsoft to step
in and actually start to deploy some of those resources and deploy them in ways that ensure
that we ultimately change the way that we monitor model and then ultimately manage
Earth's natural systems in a, in a way that we've never been able to before. And we started
out, as I said a year ago with basically nothing but aspiration. Uh, we looked back this
past Tuesday, uh, on, uh, this event that we had national geographic where we inducted
a new set of grantees into our, into our portfolio and realized that in that short year,
we'd set up relationships with organizations all over the world, over 200 organizations
all over the world, each that are dedicated to taking a machine learning first approach
to solving challenges in these, in these four domain areas that we focus on. They're
on all set, they're working on all seven continents now over 50 countries in the world, 34
countries here in the United States. And then today get the opportunity to sit down with
one of, one of the grantees, right, to hear a little bit more about, you know, just their
particular experience. Um, and, uh, and talk about the ways that, that machine learning
in particular can fundamentally change our ability to, um, to understand what's going
on on planet Earth. Because I think that most people don't take the time to step back
and realize when they hear terms like information age, just how narcissistic that really is,
that almost every bit of information that we've been collecting is about ourselves, right?
It's about where the nearest Starbucks is. It's about what people who searched for also
searched for, right? And it's at the peril of ignoring the rest of, rest of life on Earth
and the ways that it supports us and our economies. It's what Sylvia Terra, I think, is, is
so focused on is using vast amounts of data, new approaches and machine learning to actually
just ask some simple questions. Like where are all the trees in the United States? We don't
know answers to things like that. I mean, that just blows my mind, you know? Um, and so,
um, that's where a lot of this came from. It's just a fundamental desire to change, change
our ability to monitor and model life on Earth. I guess that isn't all that simple, but,
but I also think it's completely and totally doable, right? I mean, look, look at where
we've come from, from an information process and capacity over the past 25 years to where
we are today. I mean, if you would have tried to predict every little bit of it, it would
have been impossible, but, um, but it kind of seems pre-ardane now that you look back
at it.
When I think about the types of systems that we've been talking about thus far, both the
economic systems, political systems, as well as the biological systems, it jumps out
of me that there's a tremendous amount of complexity in those systems and machine learning,
deep learning in particular has this great ability to, like, pick out patterns and abstract
away from complexity, which kind of says to me, oh, it's a no-brainer to apply machine
learning to this. Um, but then, you know, we're still very early on in our ability to put
these, you know, these machine learning to work. And I guess, um, curious, yeah, maybe,
maybe for you, Zach, like, where do you think the opportunity is with applying machine
learning and AI for, uh, the types of problems that, uh, concern you in particular with regard
to forest?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So one, I guess, kind of listening, listening to Lucas there,
you know, one thing that kind of jumps out at me from, from when you first spoke in
that, uh, your response to the second question there is, there are lots of people that are
very interested in natural resources and there are lots of people that are very interested
in machine learning and AI, but it is a very small community of people. It's, I think it's
rare that you, you know, it's uncommon to start out believing you're going to spend all
your time outside and then find yourself curled up in front of some code. Uh, so, you
know, the first thing, you know, I think there's a lot of opportunity for, um, you know,
for people to make that leap and to see, just to begin to see that as a more natural,
uh, a more natural thing, uh, because the, the questions are very, they're very complex.
And so, um, again, just like Lucas said, most of our, most of our focus has been on how
to market to somebody to buy a cup of coffee here versus there, um, and how to think about
social networks and how to think about marketing networks and transportation networks.
And I think, you know, it's, it's exciting to see that begin to percolate down and transition
to, uh, the story behind, um, how all of those materials come into our, into our world
and life. The fact is that everything around us, or I think the surprising fact is that
everything around us, every, every little bit of technology and everything that built
this, this room that, you know, that we're in or that your listeners are in, those things
were either grown or mined. Every piece of that, uh, every little bit has some geographic
story, some geographic story, some physical story, some environmental story. And if we
were to be confronted with all of those stories, you know, just from one day of our consumption,
one day of us interacting as we normally do, uh, it would take us years to even sift
through all of those stories. There's, there's no way, there's no way, but those stories
all amassed to have a, a very large impact in how we all live. And so to me, that is the
huge opportunity here. You know, we, you know, we with, with Microsoft AI for Earth have
worked on this, this, uh, data set for the continental US at high resolution to inform
about, you know, down to species and diameters, where, where trees are and what those structures
and compositions are and moving forward, what they could be. Um, but that's not going to
stop, you know, the fact that we are all consumers and that while we have a conservation, uh,
need, we also have a consumptive need. And there's, I think there's so much opportunity
to begin to, to investigate how we balance that and how we feel about that and to engage
a meaningful conversation as, you know, at, at multiple levels in society about how that
can best be done. So like, you know, ask about opportunities. I mean, I, I was never excited
about AI or stats or machine learning for the sake of, you know, I mean, it is awesome.
I now understand that. But it, uh, you know, it's, and I, I do get jammed up about, you
know, exciting advances there. But it's about what it can answer. I mean, that's, that's
what drew me out of the woods and put me in front of a computer. It was the ability to
start to, to, to even think about those, those big questions, uh, and, and put it all like,
like distill it to, to something simple and right in front of us. And, and so that's, that's
the opportunity. It, it allows us to know more about our world and ourselves and to create
a better, uh, a better world and a, and sort of a better image of our, of ourselves.
Can we maybe dig into a little bit more detail of either the data set that you just mentioned
or another project and talk through, uh, the process through which Soviet era uses machine
learning, the challenges that you run into, um, maybe walk us through a scenario.
Sure. Absolutely. And, and I'll just briefly kind of tell you where we're coming from.
People have been managing forests for, you know, hundreds, you know, a couple hundred
years. And in the US, about a hundred, a hundred plus, uh, and they needed information
then as they do now, they, uh, but to get that, they would do a statistical survey. They
would go, you know, the go and put measurements in and you work up an average and you make
a plan based on that average. Um, that has been effective and it's, you know, it's what
people use a lot still today. But, uh, what, what we were, what we're focused on doing
is bringing imagery into bear in model assisted and model based methods to yield small area
estimates. Uh, and, you know, for us, it's at a 15 meter resolution. Uh, and for a 15 meter
pixel, what we're predicting is the number of stems, their sizes and species. And when
I say size, I mean, the diameter of the, the trunk of the tree at four and a half feet
off the ground. And from there to, you know, in a hierarchical context to predict them,
maybe the height of the tree or the ratio of crown to, uh, to just clear bowl at the bottom.
And from there, maybe they're herbaceous, you know, since we can infer or predict maybe
the light conditions, uh, under that forest, how much herbaceous, uh, plant matter there
may be there, uh, carrying that forward. How many, um, how many herbivores that could
support scaling that up, how many large carnivores that could support. But for now, the, the,
the primary piece, this, uh, foundational data set that we've worked out with Microsoft
on is the tree list information for each one of those pixels, which hasn't existed before.
But that opens up so many doors, uh, for what, what we can begin to build on to and model
further, further down the line. And so at a resolution of 15 meters, a single pixel
might contain how many trees contain, it could contain an awful lot. Um, you know, easily,
and this is the tricky thing is a tree could be as small as a seedling. It could be as large
as a Sequoia. So it could, it could have less than one, right? Uh, it could have 300, you
know, packed, but, you know, small tiny little trees packed in tightly. And this is the fundamental
difference about what we're working on here, you know, to me, then, you know, then, then
where we're coming from, which is we need to transition away from the binary, or like,
basically qualitative classifications, forest non-forest. That's not actually that informative
about what that forest can, uh, you know, what habitat it can provide, what, you know,
what maybe we need to do or not do to ensure that it's the type of forest that's going to
continue providing the things we care about, clean water, you know, carbon out of the atmosphere,
um, would to build this table, you know, those, those are the types of things. And so beginning
to quantify those, those aspects is very important. And when I began working with this, um,
you know, there, everything was on the table. I mean, we were, there, there was the potential
to use LIDAR and neural nets, uh, to try and, uh, clarify discrete trees. Um, we do not
do that at, you know, I, uh, for various reasons, largely bias in results. Um, but, uh, for us,
you know, parting out species became a massive problem. So if you have, let's say, 40 trees
of multiple species in one pixel, how do you begin to differentiate those when you're looking
at one pixel of data from lots of imagery sources? And, you know, that, that's, uh, that was
a technical challenge. So one of, one of the things that I think is interesting about this
is like, you're talking about forestry, right? And whether or not people know it's a profession,
it's an extremely old one, you know, some of the people that go on, you don't think that,
you don't think that you're going to be talking about machine learning. You also don't think that
you're necessarily going to be talking about philosophy or existential questions, but you asked
to, you asked a question about 15 meter resolution, right? Which, when you work with organizations
like Sylvia Tara that are looking down at the world and asking what is there, you end up having
these existential conversations about what is a thing, right? At what level should we be taking
data points to be able to feed into these machine learning algorithms? Because when you incorporate
the Z dimension or the Z dimension or whatever you want to call it, whatever part of this planet
Earth is from, you can be, you can be looking down at, in, multitude of different objects, right? And
depending on what sensor you're using, you may only see one of them or you may see many of them
if you're using something like LIDAR and you're able to kind of get your, sent your, your laser
sensors enough to see enough of those things. And so you, you start struggling with all of these
questions that are actually fairly unarticulated in the modern machine learning literature quite frankly,
where, you know, all the standard libraries take in a 300 by 300 pixel, you know, this image and
they all have these harsh expectations and, you know, and sure, maybe we think we all left the
world of frequencies, statistics behind, but we still carry over kind of the ghosts of a lot of
those, you know, harsh binary classification results. And so it's just fascinating, I think,
to think about not just like what's hard in the, in the forestry space and how modern machine
learning techniques can help transform that, but also what the problems in the applications
of an organization like Sylvia Terra and then the rest of our AI first grantees, what that brings
back to the machine learning community, which is what's hard here, right? Why, why can't we just
take all the deep neural network advances that we've made and just voila, we've solved all of the
world's problems, right? It's because, as you said, we're still at the infancy of a lot of what
we hope to achieve in machine learning. We just also recognize the severely short amount of time
that we have to answer some of these bigger and, you know, kind of environmental questions. And
so we have got to take everything that we have at our disposal and start to deploy it.
You mentioned sensors and light hours, kind of a very specific curiosity question. I've always
associated light hours like a local, you know, a very short-range local sensing mechanism.
Is that not the case? Can you do light hour from satellites?
Yes. Yes. Plane. What are all the sensors? A new sensor was just launched, you know, a couple
what weeks ago. Something like that. So there's a new, there's a Jedi sensor that's going,
it's called Jedi. I'm used to it now, but I was going to say, use the light or Luke. Jedi,
Jedi is his, his, no, no. Well, NASA is a designation, but they're strapping this thing onto,
onto the space station. It's going to be pulsing down, you know, not the poles, but basically everything
between. And I think it's full waveform, lidar. And yeah, so absolutely, and even historically,
there was ISAT, which was a satellite-based lidar sensor. But moreover and more commonly in forestry,
and a lot of the, you know, even in urban areas, they're collecting lidar information from airplanes
at, you know, at different altitudes and different point densities, something, you know, a common one
might be like 12 or 24 points per square meter. And those, you know, when you see that over forest
at Canopy, some of those pulses reach the ground. And so the best elevation models that you see in
the US right now are lidar-derived elevation models. And that's the source of a lot of the
information that we're getting. And you see it in a lot of floodplain areas, the Mississippi Delta
area so that we can better understand how flooding may occur or may not occur in certain areas.
One more thing that I'm always struck by when you when you start thinking about remote sensing and
just sensing in general is applied to environmental systems is that as we start to take a more
digital or computational approach to sensing, we almost by definition have got to start taking a more
machine learning approach to driving insights. Because what computers are able to do, and I don't
know, maybe I'm just missing the conversation or maybe the conversation isn't as fully kind of
articulated as it could be, but computers are able to sense the world and so many more
dimensions than people are, right? And why do we model? Well, we model because we need a
simplifying function to help us understand an already complex world. And so what was already
complex according to our five senses has now become exponentially more complicated with things like
hyperspectral resolution monitoring where you're getting thousands of bands back of imagery plus
things like LIDAR that are getting 24 points per square meter. You can't humans don't even know,
it's interesting. People always complain that they don't understand what the net what the layers
and a deep neural network do. We also have no idea how to even interpret most of the signals that
are coming back from the most advanced sensors in the world because they don't correspond to
dimensionality that we that we live in. I was just going to ask that when I've talked to folks
that are using LIDAR in the context of self-driving vehicles, and this whole idea of sensor fusion
comes into play and making sense of all these disparate data sources, you know, that in that
example are very local. And now we're talking about, you know, global data sources or at least,
you know, much larger scale and, you know, with overlapping tiles and capabilities. There's
a ton of complexity there is are those? Is that type of complexity, some of the complexity that
your company is working on managing or do you count on upstream providers to kind of sort a lot
of that out for you? So that's exactly the type of complexity that we deal with. I mean, there
are an enormous pool of potential data sources that exist and they all have, you know, potentially
very useful attributes and some of them less so. They have different time stamps associated with
them and there's one very nice thing about measuring forests as long as you don't mess with them.
They tend not to move too much. So trees are, you know, they're pretty willing subjects to be,
you know, just to be measured, but they are always changing. There's growth associated,
there's natural, there's naturally occurring disturbance, there's, you know, human cause disturbance
and both of those we want to keep track of. But yeah, what, you know, what I see our role
right now as being is taking that, you know, that massive pool of potential sources of remotely
sensitive data and the very small and often underappreciated pool of field measurements,
the things that we actually might care about and translating between those things and creating
something that is more highly resolved, more accurate, more precise and more useful
than what could otherwise be achieved. So yeah, draw the signal out of the noise, the classic,
you know, classic tale. I think if I look at kind of the full portfolio of AI for Earth grantees,
well over 200, you see that at least in my mind, Sylvia Terra is, as an organization,
one of the most mature, right? They're actually, they're, they're out of the lab,
they're a startup business model, et cetera, et cetera. And when I think about why that is in
the context of machine learning, why they're able to take advantage of that, it's because of one
thing that we just heard, which is they're taking advantage of these ground-based data points
that they can use to train their models, right? And that's because forestry is something that is
so inherently tied to our broader economy that we have here in the United States and all around
the world, a history of going out boots on the ground and putting a tape measure around a tree.
And a GPS signal next to it and saying, this tree is here. It's of this height and it's of this
species. And that's so rare in the broader environmental space, right? And that's, it's one of the
reasons that I think organizations like Sylvia Terra are unfortunately kind of standing alone in
many respects is because there's so few data sets. It's called machine learning because we're
teaching computers, right? And to teach you have to be taught or to be taught, you need to be shown
examples. And it's why we've seen so significant of advances in other fields of machine learning,
but not in others. And there's just so few annotations in our space that when you come into a forestry
space where the US government has paid money for the past hundred years to go out and figure all
this out, companies like Sylvia Terra can stand on top of that and really just kind of zoom off
ahead. But they are in many ways the exception to the rule, which is unfortunate, I think.
Do you find that the kind of work that you're doing, you know, we talked about the
sensing and pulling all that information together. Does this put you at the kind of the research
frontier of using machine learning techniques? Or are you able to use off the shelf types of
models? Where does your work fall in the spectrum of complexity?
Maybe complexity is not the right word, just in terms of the innovation cycle. Are you
able to apply things that people are doing in other fields pretty readily? Or are you having to
push the limits and pull right out of academic research or things like that?
You know, it's a little bit of both. I mean, our core algorithm has been, you know,
it's matured over the last nine years of doing the work that we have. And we're a small team.
I mean, we're 10 people effectively. And I guess when I got into this, I originally, like when I
thought this quant path was something that was really resonated with me that I connected with
and that I saw a value in, I originally then thought I was going to be a professor.
I would be a researcher somewhere. I would be putting papers out because that must be how change
happens. And my path changed when I went around to people that I'd worked with in industry and
asked them what papers they were reading to affect to change the way that they worked. What was the
most influential journals that they were reading? And the answer was that they weren't reading the
journals. They were busy managing land and that they wanted a tool, not a publication.
And that, I mean, that was a little eye-opening. And so that's what I, you know,
max my other, Max Nova, my co-founder and I sort of set about to do is build tools.
But I don't, I don't really accept like a full dichotomy between, you know, you know,
is it researcher? Is it kind of off the shelf type stuff? I mean, we pride ourselves in our,
you know, in our ability not only to understand the systems that we're working in, but also
to be abreast of what's happening in modern computational techniques and modeling effort,
you know, modeling tools. So, which I imagine everybody would probably say, right? Like everybody
would like to tell you, no, we're right on the edge. But we're also, what I, the funny thing that
I learned when I got into this on the app, I'm on the applied side. I mean, I, I talk with people
that are trying to figure out wildfire modeling and how to, how to pick which communities to,
to, you know, to allocate funds and effort to help manage a forest to prevent catastrophic fires.
I work with people that are trying to figure out how to manage for forest carbon. I work with
people that try and figure out how to manage forests to deliver wood to a mill to make paper.
But what's, I guess, striking to me from the, from where I started to now is I thought that what
people needed to see was the math. I thought I would show up at their offices and be like, good
news. We figured it out. Check this new method out. Check, you know, we pipe in this data. We put
in these measurements from the ground. We're able to model this more effectively now. And what I,
what I learned is that if, if I can't communicate effectively about, about what we've done,
if it really truly seems like magic, then it is, by definite, it's incredible in like the,
in the truest sense of the word, it is not credible, you know, and, and credibility counts.
And so I, in some cases where, when we're working with people, we may not use the most fantastic
new thing. We may use something that is slightly more costly in terms of input data that it
requires or costly in terms of model fit. But that is more easily understood and explained and
more robust to, like the boot test, you know, you go out and it, it, it just makes sense. So I,
that's, you know, and Lucas, does that experience ring true for the other, the other grantees that
you work with or is there, are there a spectrum of experiences there in terms of where they are
and applying some, some of our grantees are using almost commodity services at this moment,
you know, I mean, Microsoft, for instance, has a, has a service called custom vision AI,
sorry, custom vision API, where you just, they want to do some of our grantees want to do
simple image recognition tasks and the service works for them. And all they, they literally just
drag in a whole bunch of photos of one type and a whole bunch of photos of another type and the
system learns it and produces a result for them. And that's fine, right? So that's pretty far
on the one side of just like commoditized services. Then there's other grantees that are out there
creating exceptionally custom algorithms for their work. I think we've got a grantee
called wildme that does basically facial recognition for species so that they can provide better
wildlife population estimates of species like giraffe and zebra, things that they can, you
know, everybody knows a giraffe or everybody's heard that every giraffe's pattern is unique,
but look at a couple photos of giraffes and you'll realize just how hard it is for the human eye
to spot those differences, right? So they're building algorithms to differentiate any particular,
you know, zebra giraffe and then plug those into statistical models for estimating populations.
There's nothing off the shelf that does that. In fact, most of the main libraries they have to go
back and modify the core code of. So it's a full, full spectrum and we're willing to support
all of it, right? Because what we're trying to get people to understand is, well, first and foremost,
we're just trying to break down the access barrier, right? We want to ensure that budget isn't a
barrier to getting this stuff done because I can assure you and many of your listeners are aware,
sometimes the latest machine learning kind of approaches can be fairly expensive. If not,
you know, it might be an open source library, but somebody needs a thousand GPUs to run this
sitting on, right? So we make sure that the infrastructure gets in the hands of folks, et cetera,
but it's also just kind of awareness that you could be thinking about this. You don't have to be,
we want the world's leading machine learning scientists to be thinking about what they could be doing,
but we don't want the rest of the world to think that they have to be one of the world's
machine learning experts to have a crack at this, right? That there is software and services
that can help them as well. So we see the full spectrum and I think it's super healthy.
We also see the full spectrum of kind of, if I would encapsulate what Zach was saying there
in just kind of two words of interest in what we would call explainable AI, right?
Do people really care why an algorithm said that this was a draft and that was a zebra?
Not really. You don't have to explain that to them, right? Do they want to understand why
some decision support algorithm like a land, like a spatial optimization algorithm that assigns
this part of the country or this part of the county into protected land and this part into
industrial use and this part into urban growth and expansion? How that works? And why people thought
that this was the better policy than that? Probably so. Yes, they do, right? So I think, you know, people,
there's, I think there's a lot of hand-ranging and angst right now around conversations,
like explainable AI, I don't remember. And I think it's just like, it's no different than the
conversation we've always had about modeling, which is why it's a model of a complex system.
Why are you building it? If it's being built to just do a simple classification task and it's
easy for a human to go and check the accuracy left or right, then great, you know, you can use
some really advanced statistical techniques. If it's something that if that model instead is a
model of, for instance, a human decision process, then I think the onus on kind of explainability is
much higher. So along those lines, we've used computation to understand the environment, climate
for a very long time, you know, whether, for example, has, you know, been a great focus of
high-performance computing, you know, taking a step back from, you know, the fact that we're all
really excited about AI, do you, where do you think AI offers unique opportunities relative to
the things that we've done for a long time? Sure. Well, I mean, the answer to that will be
super complex. I'll try to make it simple. And, you know, you mentioned whether, I think, sure,
there's no question that statistics and math and then kind of the computational platforms that
started to support them over or the recent decades have been used for environmental monitoring.
I mean, Fisher was, you know, it goes all the way back to some of these guys. We're biologists,
right? The bigger question is, why are we kind of excited about this today? And for me,
it really is the full kind of broad definition of what we mean by AI. It's the recognition that
we're finally deploying computers, computing systems that can collect unprecedented amounts of data.
And that's just amounts. But, you know, we were talking about the full kind of crazy dimensionality
of the data that we're starting to take on. So we've got this breakthrough in data. We've got
this breakthrough in infrastructure where you can, you know, I made a joke about needing 1,000
GPUs. Well, if you need one 1,000, 10,000, you just got to turn a knob these days and get access
to it. And wherever you are on that knob is still a lot cheaper than a supercomputer. Extremely.
So, and then we have made crazy advances in just a whole plethora of algorithms. But for a lot
of the most important ones, we've directly accelerated the compute through the perspective of those
algorithms, right? So for the first time. And then, of course, we've made it so easy to deploy
these algorithms as web-based services as APIs, right? And then, of course, the software infrastructure
stack and all of that is incredible. So, and we've made it commodity level infrastructure.
Anybody can get access to this stuff. You know, you hear this term democratizing AI. What we
mean by that is bringing it all into a stack that anybody can use. You don't need access to a
government run supercomputer anymore. So that's all one side of it. The other thing is from
Weather is a great example here where traditional weather force casting was strong numerical
simulation, right? And that's one type of math, right? But there wasn't a lot of learning
in real time about what was going on. We took a physical process. We built a model that we
thought strongly corresponded with it. And then we ran numerical simulations of it fast forward.
And yeah, just for the simulation perspective, you need a lot of compute. But then the question
is, but all sorts of crazy things happen when we do that that we don't quite understand, right?
Little eddy fluxes happen in some atmospheric layer or whatever. And we don't really know why.
And then the weather community started using machine learning to not necessarily learn why,
but to be able to predict for one reason or another when those things were going to come. And
weather forecasting got a lot better. Same thing is happening now in climate modeling as well.
We know there's things that we just can't do from our traditional approach to climate modeling.
There's a whole new group that's just kind of spun out that's taking a purely machine learning
first approach to building a new climate model for the world. And not positioning themselves
as better, but positioning themselves as complementary. And so I think that there's a lot of,
um, there's a lot of, uh, work that's just happened in commoditizing all of this stuff as well as,
you know, recognizing that while we've taken a hugely mathematical statistical and computational
approach to doing some of the stuff in the in the past, machine learning is a different approach,
right? It's a data driven approach. Um, and that can be very complementary. And we've seen it accelerate
extremely economically important things like weather cap forecasting, forestry, agriculture,
and on and on. As we wind up, Zach, can you share something that you're particularly excited about
kind of looking forward in terms of the application of AI to forestry? Yeah. So it's absolutely,
I mean, obviously we're excited to be releasing this, this data set, but it's, it's really about what
it enables. Um, we're, we're excited to see more, uh, nuanced and, uh, reactive markets
around environmental services like species habitat, carbon, water, uh, be informed by, by these
type of data. And, uh, to play a part in, in that process to integrate these, uh, these concerns
into, into ongoing management decisions. So that's, I mean, that's the, that's the, the biggest
piece. It's what you can, what you can do with, with this information is you move it from, well,
from data to information to, to decisions. And Lucas, how about from, from your practice, you
look at this from both a, uh, you know, very technical and resource perspective, but also as
managing and interacting with this portfolio of innovators that are working in this space. What,
what are you excited about? Well, ultimately what I'm the, the future I kind of see and the way
that we've structured the whole program is we think the world fundamentally needs is the ability,
or what, what society needs is the ability to query the planet by x, y and t.
Hmm. We need to be able to understask questions, just like we ask some potentially Z. What's that?
No, Z. No, Z. Well, so I was, I was actually speaking with my team the other day and I sent a
slide that said x, y, t of posture, you know, uh, a positive z. And I was like, and I said
stretch goal, right? So, um, so, uh, yeah, if we get the z dimension, then, then I'll be, then I
can retire. Uh, but no, I think, you know, ultimately that's where we need to go. We need to be
able to allow people to ask for any particular piece of land or water. What was there? What's there?
Now, what could be there? And a, and empower policymakers to figure out what should be there,
right? We're far from that. Now, Microsoft's always had kind of a empowering and ecosystem
of customers and partners approach. We don't look, you know, we don't look at the world and say,
oh, say we buy into my x, y, t vision. We don't see that as some fantastical crystal ball
that the world spins around and taps on, right? We see it as a constellation of services
and products and solutions brought by all sectors. And so what we're looking to do is engage with
the Sylvia terrors of the world. Unfortunately, there are far too few at the moment. So engage with
those that are there. Bring up the next generation and the next and the next until eventually,
there's kind of a self-supporting community of machine learning kind of born, you know, we talk
about born digital. I kind of think about born machine learning, you know, these organizations
that it's just baked into their DNA. But the organization is not, it doesn't exist because of
machine learning. It exists because of the challenges that we face in the environmental space.
They just are capable of ingesting machine learning approaches natively and efficiently.
And treat space and time as first-class data citizens in this world of machine learning.
Fantastic. Well, Lucas and Zach, thanks so much for taking the time to chat with me.
Thank you. It was a pleasure. Yeah. Thanks, Sam. Appreciate it.
All right, everyone. That's our show for today. For more information on Lucas, Zach, or any of
the topics covered in the show, visit twimmelai.com slash talk slash 228. To follow along with the AI
for the benefit of society series, visit twimmelai.com slash AI for society. As always, thanks so much
for listening and catch you next time.
