Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast where I interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
I'd like to start off this show by sending out a huge thank you to everyone listening.
We've dropped a ton of great interviews over the past few weeks and through your dedication
we continue to see a growing outpouring of feedback comments and shares with each release.
If you're a regular listener but don't normally send in feedback, we'd really love to hear
from you.
So please head on over to Apple Podcasts or wherever you listen and leave us a review.
A 5 star review is of course appreciated but what's most important is that your voice
is heard.
And let's us know what you like or what you feel we can improve on and it also lets
those looking for a new machine learning and AI podcast know that they should join the
Twimble community.
Speaking of community, the details of our next Twimble online meetup have been posted.
On Tuesday, November 14th at 3pm Pacific time, we'll be joined by Kevin T who will be presenting
his paper, active preference learning for personalized portfolio construction.
If you've already registered for the meetup, you should have received an invitation
with all the details.
If you still need to register, head on over to twimbleai.com slash meetup to do so.
We hope to see you there.
Now as some of you may know, we spent a few days last week in New York City hosted by
our great friends at NYU Future Labs.
About six months ago, we covered their inaugural AI Summit, an event they hosted to showcase
the startups in the first batch of their AI Nexus Lab program, as well as the impressive
AI talent in the New York City ecosystem.
While we were more than excited when we found out they would be having a second summit
so soon, this time, we had the pleasure of interviewing the four startups of the second
AI Nexus Lab batch.
We also interviewed a bunch of the speakers from the event and will be sharing those discussions
over the upcoming weeks.
In this show, I speak with Ron Fisher and Mike Wang, who, along with Vivek Siddarsen, founded
Bowtie Labs, a 24-7 AI-based receptionist designed to help businesses and the beauty
wellness and fitness industries increase retail conversion rates.
I've talked with a few startups in the conversational space recently, and one common theme seems
to be quickly outgrowing commercial conversational platforms.
Ron and Mike shared their own experiences with this decision, and shared some of the challenges
they're trying to overcome with their own ML models, as well as some of the techniques
they use to make their system as robust and responsive as possible.
All right, everyone, I am at NYU Future Labs, and I am with the co-founders of Bowtie,
Ron Fisher and Mike Wang, Ron, and Mike, welcome to this weekend Machine Learning and AI.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
So, why don't we get started with having you, Ron, tell us a little bit about your background
and how you got to get involved in Bowtie?
Sure, it's definitely been a long and winding road.
After college, I served in the Israeli Army for three years, basically, and did the digital
strategy there and helped build out the new media, so that was definitely in my beginnings
in terms of working with technology, and after that, I worked at Nielsen for five years,
and then finally got my MBA Cornell Tech, where I met Mike, and my co-founder also came
from Nielsen, so we had already known each other, and then the three of us formed this team
as part of our final semester, where we are tasked with basically working on any problem
we want, and if we want to continue that work after Spinat as a real company.
Oh, wow.
How about you, Mike?
So I graduated from Cornell Undergrad, where I studied computer science, and that's
why I really found my interest in sort of machine learning and AI in that field.
And following that, I actually went directly to Cornell Tech for grad school, and that's
where I met these guys, and we formed the team, and I think we have a really balanced
skillset, and it's been an amazing journey so far with them.
Nice.
Awesome.
So Bo-Tai, what does Bo-Tai do besides having an awesome robot logo sticker?
So, yes.
Actually, that robot has been retired.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
Things change very quickly in a startup.
It's a 24-7 AI receptionist.
Okay.
It's currently focused on beauty, wellness, and fitness businesses, so anything from like
a high-end beauty salon to like a chain of gyms, yoga studios, things like that, and
it operates on the web and through texting, and if you call any of the businesses and nobody
answers, then the AI receptionist will instantly text you back, so it can convert people before
they have a chance to move on to another business.
Okay.
So, how does that work?
So, let's say like Morgan finds a cool salon on Yelp.
She calls it up.
Nobody answers.
She's frustrated.
She wants to blow up.
She will now call on other business.
She calls us a lot.
Nobody answers.
And then our AI receptionist, text her instantly, says, hey, you know, it's Lily from Bo-Tai
salon.
How can I help you?
And then Morgan was like, oh, she just sex back.
I'd love a blow out today through PM, and then they go back and forth by messaging to
input the appointment.
What percentage of the inbound calls are coming from mobile nowadays?
Do you get a pretty high hit rate on that?
Yeah.
I would say almost all the inbound calls are coming from mobile.
So I don't have an exact number, but we're able to text back with vast majority of users.
Sometimes we see like someone calling for a landline, but that's actually in the low
minority.
Interesting.
Interesting.
So, I've been familiar with some kind of these appointments, casual and kind of apps.
And then you have like your ex.ai, Amy kind of thing, and you guys are bringing that
together.
Is that a good way to think about this?
Yeah.
So, we're kind of like business to business to consumer.
In a sense, we're giving them a tool set that they could deploy to their customer base.
Okay.
Interesting.
And so, how does it all work?
Yeah.
So, great question.
Well, all the texting we use Twilio for, you know, the SMS stuff.
We also do a web chat, which we have our own little plugin that sits on their website.
So, that's typically where customers first find out about us, or, you know, contact
the bot.
And what happens to Facebook Messenger, or is it a standalone bot on the page?
Yeah.
So, we do have Facebook Messenger as a third channel.
So, we have a web chat, which typically sits on their website.
You can think of like Intercom or like, as an example, what that might look like.
And then SMS is where we reach out to customers who call and nobody answers.
And so, those are sort of three channels that we're working in right now.
And so, what happens is that when a customer sends us a message, we do two things.
We extract the intent of the customer.
So, like, what are they looking to do?
You know, some people are looking to book an appointment right away.
Other people are just looking for prices, or, you know, what time are you guys open?
And so, we class by their intent.
And then, we extract the entities, relevant entities in the message to figure out like,
okay, who are they trying to book with?
What are they trying to book?
What time do they want to come in?
And then, if there's anything missing, then we follow up and say, like, hey, you know,
I got that you want a haircut.
Did you want a men's cutter or women's cut?
And who do you want it with, and when do you want to come in, and so forth?
Interesting.
How did you select the particular vertical that you're going after, or at least starting
with?
So, originally, we wanted to do, we were very passionate about chatbots, so we were talking
about predictive assistance.
And we knew that there were a lot of companies attacking the enterprise side of the problem.
And we said that it would be really cool to do some sort of, like, self-service platform
to be able to provide this, like, to businesses and mass.
Similar to what Mailchip does with email.
And this was before Facebook opened up the platform for Messenger, and, like, before
it kind of, like, superheated up while we were still in school.
So we actually originally were like, okay, well, what is a business that people interact
with every day?
Right.
And we're like, well, what do people do every day to eat?
So we started in food, because none of us have any experience really in, like, beauty
on a sore fitness.
And then, eventually, once we launched across, like, 25 restaurants in New York, we saw
that we felt like we weren't really solving a problem.
And while it was, like, iteratively better, it wasn't, like, 10 times better.
And in that sense, we were kind of fighting an uphill battle.
So during our time in an accelerator already after school, we said, we believe in the underlying
thesis of Bowtie, which is that, like, apps are becoming increasingly irrelevant, like,
65% of users down the zero new apps a month.
And that all these types of businesses, like, local businesses and things like that, are
still pumping money into apps that nobody really wants.
So then we spoke to a bunch of different people, did research.
And then basically, like, after a few conversations, one of which was with, like, a beauty expert
in our accelerator, CEO of Theave at the time, a lot of Gregory, we said, you know, we're
considering the beauty space.
And then she's like, yeah, you know, I don't know.
Like, let me think about it.
And then two days later, she's like, no, she's like, this is a real issue for the sector.
And then after doing our own research, we found a variety of reasons why it really made
sense to actually dive in and apply the technology to them.
Okay.
And what kind of response have you received?
And generally, these kind of, you know, mom and pop shops for lack of a better term,
like, they're, they are historically really difficult to gain traction in for startups.
What are you doing to try to overcome that?
So we basically have like a variety of techniques that we employ, whether that's like, drip emails
or like, cold calling to trade shows.
And what we found was it definitely, like, the trade shows is the most effective.
And it kind of draws the people who are looking for new technology to begin with.
And I think that that's been really helpful for us.
And they're also really happy because we're the only ones who are providing this type of
solution.
And it's a problem that they're very aware of that they have.
So that being able to kind of like deliver on something that they know is an issue has
been very helpful for us.
Okay.
One of the benefits about working with these types of businesses is that they pay attention
to numbers and, you know, real improvement in their business.
So if you can prove that, say, where we can handle, you know, X percent of their call
volume or get them X dollars in incremental revenue, like that really resonates with
them.
Because at the end of the day, like, you know, even a small amount of incremental revenue
can make a huge difference for these smaller shops.
And so in contrasting that with like consumer behavior where it's a lot more sort of up in
the air, like, you know, this is fun to use, like, there's so many other alternatives.
But for us, it's like if we can really show them that it's going to materially improve
their business, then that really resonates with them.
So what are some of the biggest challenges you face from machine learning and AI perspective
and pulling this all together?
Yeah.
So I would say, as you can imagine, the biggest challenge for us is that we started off
with zero data.
And so we really had to bootstrap the automation with like proprietary algorithms, just doing
lots and lots of research into like, what do people say, how do people say it, and sort
of slowly collect enough data that we could start training a model and start to generalize
a little bit.
But as you, when you start doing this type of thing, you quickly realize that like people
say things in a million different ways, like, how many ways can you ask for a haircut,
right?
You'd really be surprised when you ask for a haircut.
And there's also so many other requests that like we never would have thought of that someone
might even text, like, do you guys offer organic products?
When we set out to build a system that could help people book appointments and reschedule
and ask for prices or whatever, there's a lot of things that we never even considered
where like requests that would be coming in.
And that is what makes the customer service space difficult in general if you're trying
to automate it, just like the breadth of requests that come in.
But that's one of the reasons why we chose to start off in such a narrow vertical is that
it makes it vastly easier to handle those requests.
Whereas if we wanted to, you know, there's a lot of companies out there like ASAP and digital
genius who are trying to sort of augment or automate call centers and very generalized
customer service.
And that is a very, very difficult problem.
So we're trying to be a little bit more narrow.
And so have you developed any particular kinds of tools or approaches for kind of starting
in a whittle down that long tail of requests or well, how do you handle that?
Yeah.
So the majority of requests that do come in are things that, you know, we've sort of collected
over the past six months and to be honest, it's a very manual process of like figuring
out what a new request might be.
And you know, there's, you can get 80%, you know, classic 80, 20 will here, like you
can get 80% of those requests with like 20% of the work.
And the other one, you know, like 20% of their requests might be sort of smaller or random
things.
And what we do is whenever there's something that we don't understand, we like mark that
in our system.
And then, you know, every once in a while we go through that list and pull out trends
that we're seeing, like initially we didn't realize that so many people would get to the
end of a booking process and ask for the price, but we found that looking at our data and
going back and saying like, okay, this is something that we now have to handle.
And there's also a lot of requests that are like served specific to a business.
So someone might be like, where do I park?
And that sort of thing.
So that's another aspect that makes this difficult.
But what we've done there is like created basically a custom FAQ system where a business
can go and enter in their own questions and answers.
And we use a mix of our own tools, along with Microsoft's Q&A service, to handle those
like sort of more one-off questions and answers.
Okay.
It sounds like you're not doing any human and loo type of aspect to this where if a request
comes in and it's not understood, it's kind of escalated to some agents that you or the
customer is managing.
Oh, so we actually do do that.
If something doesn't understand something, then we pass it off to a human.
And that's typically, you know, the business is existing customer support staff.
So that might be receptionist or even a call center.
And so we, anything we don't understand, it gets passed off to a human.
But in terms of marking it in our system as something that we might want to handle in
the future, that process is sort of difficult to automate.
And that's something that we're working on.
And we even have sort of a dashboard that the business operators work in.
And we're planning on adding tools in there that would actually allow the operator to go
highlight a sentence and say like, this is something that the bot didn't get, but is
a common request that we get.
And then they could either add that to their FAQ automatically or sort of like you said,
escalate that to us and we would go work on it.
And is it your sense that something like that would be readily adopted by, I'm imagining
us a lot on ours.
And I'm assuming you're going after not kind of these big chains alarms, but like smaller
shops, like, are they going to want to even think about that?
Well, we're going for both.
So there are, that we do have some bigger clients that are nationwide and they're easier
to work with.
But then they have their own like technology issues.
So they have like systems that we want, they want us to integrate with.
But in terms of the smaller businesses, as long as you give them something on a mobile
device, I actually do feel like they're pretty open to it.
But they also have like a very low tolerance for error because of the fact that they're
in the service business.
So like you really have to nail it the first time.
Interesting.
On the conversational side, did you start off on one of the commercial conversational platforms
or did you roll your own, I'm thinking here of things like API.ai and other things?
Yeah.
So we actually, you know, we tried all those platforms out when we set out to do this initially
and found that it was just too much of a black box.
So when you, you know, we have real clients using this product, then it really can't mess
up on things that are like easily remedied if we had our own more customizable model and
system.
Well, it's an example of something that you found it messed up a lot on that given your
own platform was easily remediedable.
Yeah, definitely.
So, for example, Solon Service is called Single Process and I had no idea that existed
before entering the space, but if you, to me, I'm thinking versus multi-threaded, but
that's probably the same thing, right?
So Single Process is like two pretty common words together.
And if you just say, if you just piped in a sentence to an out-of-the-box model that's
said like, can I come in for a single process next Friday?
It wouldn't recognize that as an entity, right?
Because it'd be the process as the entity in single is like exactly.
It's like a quantity, it might pick it up as a quantity, process is like, is that even
like a service?
Or is it, process is also a pretty general term, right?
So what we found is that we really had to augment and customize the system to be able
to work with even the most simple things in real production.
And that's actually very doable because we have, you know, a list of all the services
that the businesses have.
And over time, we've sort of automated the process of creating aliases in different alternative
ways.
People ask for things.
And those are things that you just can't input into a black box model that you might find
with like with that AI.
And so what we found is that those things are good for like, you know, sort of a small
talk kind of bought or, or maybe something a little bit more geared towards one-off responses
like a Q&A type of thing, but in terms of having a full conversation and holding state
and entities in the context of a very particular business and meeting very high accuracy to
input the exact appointment that the user is asking for, that required a lot more customization.
Okay.
And so what, tell me a little bit about the effort involved in building out that platform
and what were some of the difficult decisions that you had to make and which way you ended
up going on those?
Yeah, definitely.
So one of the big challenges was integrating into the businesses in the first place.
Okay.
So we work with mind-body businesses.
Mind-body is a scheduling platform that has, you know, fitness, beauty, wellness businesses.
And we use our API to sort of pull in the business information when they onboard.
So their staff members, their services, their availability and so forth.
And what we've found is that every single, not every single business, but many of the businesses
on this platform have their menu structured or written out in a different way.
They're like super messy, right?
Because when they're writing it out, all they need for it to do is for the receptionist
to be able to like click a drop-down and then find the service that the user is asking
for on the phone and then put it into the appointment.
But when we are trying to automate that process, we have to be able to capture, however
customer asks for it, we have to drill down to what specific service they're asking for.
So if they say laser hair removal, we need to be able to figure out if they're looking
for laser hair removal on their chin or on their forearm because those are all the specific
services in the system.
And so just importing and integrating into many businesses and sort of generalizing that
process on top of automated conversations has been a real challenge because it doesn't
come in as clean structure data where it's like service 1, you know, name plus 10 ways
of asking for it.
Service 2, name plus 10 ways of asking for it.
And so when we think about doing this at scale, we not only have to develop sort of models
for talking to the user back and forth, but also importing businesses, menu data and
structuring it and cleaning it up and not having to do that all manually.
Okay.
Do your customers ever ask you about wanting to have input into kind of the personality
if you will of their bots, like whether they're formal or informal or, you know, use a
Southern draw in the text or something like that, like, is that something that comes
up?
Yeah.
So we've had some really weird requests, like one person wanted their AI to be like an
AI dog.
So they wanted a bunch of dog references throughout the model and other times, if it's like
a larger brand, if there's one that's like as a global presence, they were very like
formal and they really wanted it to be like very fancy in their language.
So there's definitely always a back and forth between me saying that's fine and then Mike
telling me that I could take like another 10 hours.
So yes.
How do those kind of requests impact the system that you've built?
Yeah.
So the good thing is that a lot of those personality tweaks are just changes in copy in terms of
the messages that we sent out right.
So what we've done is just created a bunch of different places in the conversation where
the business can then go and tweak the message.
So around really core stuff, like, this is your booking, does it look right?
You know, we don't want them to be able to tweak every single word, but what we do is
like in the confirmation message text that the user gets when they've completed a booking,
we might have a section at the bottom where the business can add anything they want there.
So if they have a cancellation policy that they need to highlight or if they have like
special sort of something that they need to tell the user, like to not, you know, go
sun 10 two weeks before the deployment or whatever, then they would put that there.
So we have like a bunch of slots that they can modify.
Interesting. And then in terms of the kind of the MLAI tech, you know, having built up
this platform from scratch, what are some of the, you know, toolkits and languages and
like, what does the stack look like for you guys?
Yeah, definitely.
So we do everything in Python and in my opinion, the best language or data science, one
of the best languages in general.
But so we use Eski learned for a lot of the sort of out of the box models that we then
go and, you know, for any model really, most of the work goes into the feature engineering,
feature selection and data cleaning, all that stuff that goes into it before actually,
you know, doing the math and the regression or the classification behind it.
And so Eski learned, we use pretty extensively, NLTK is a great natural language processing
library that comes right bundled with Python.
We use that for a lot of, you know, like part of speech tagging, that type of thing.
And then we use spacey.io, which is another NLP library that can do like syntax, parsing
at very high speeds compared to other more state of the art models that are a lot slower
in terms of like real time parsing.
And yeah, we're experimenting right now with TensorFlow and sort of the more, some of the
deep learnings that would like work vectors and potentially looking into LSTMs for the
energy recognition stuff.
But at this point, the data that we have isn't quite at the volume that you would need
to do to do word vectors successfully.
And we're still experimenting with that.
Okay.
Awesome.
Awesome.
What's next?
What are some of the big things you're looking forward to on, you know, either the business
or tech side or big challenges that you're looking to overcome?
So now, I think it's just about being able to like shrink down the testing phase for each
of the clients that we work with because of what I was saying with their little tolerance
for error.
So we have like a huge influx of interest because they're very excited about the whole idea.
And then they're expecting to work 110% of the time.
So just being able to make sure that we can basically give it to them and for it to launch
and for them to be able to basically all have zero errors from the beginning, like ironing
out that process because now we're really like scaling out the platform, I think that's
the main issue for it, for me at least, in terms of what's next.
Anything to add, Mike?
Yeah, I would say I think basically scaling the onboarding process like Ron sort of getting
at it.
And then also thinking about, you know, this may be a little bit far off, but you know,
it's something that we started thinking about as like expanding into other verticals.
And so how do we sort of transfer the models and the knowledge that we have from this particular
vertical and make it more generalizable and make, you know, if we get into real estate
that we won't have to bootstrap the automated conversations there like we did for this.
And so in that vein, there's going to be a lot of sort of how do we separate out the
beauty specific aspects of the model and maybe try to extract the appointment booking aspects
and sort of try to generalize everything.
So that's something not about thinking about a lot.
Awesome. Ron and Mike, thanks so much for taking the time to chat with us.
I enjoyed learning about, okay, thank you.
All right, everyone, that's our show for today.
Thanks so much for listening and for your continued feedback and support.
For more information on Ron, Mike, Vivek, Bowtie Labs or any of the topics covered in this
episode, head on over to twimlai.com slash talk slash 64.
To follow along with the NYU Future Labs AI Summit series, which will be piping to your
favorite pod catcher all week, visit twimlai.com slash AI Nexus Lab 2.
Of course, you can send along your feedback or questions via Twitter to at twimlai or
at Sam Charrington or leave a comment right on the show notes page.
Thanks again to NYU Future Lab for their sponsorship of the show.
For more information on the AI Nexus Lab program, visit futurelabs.nyc.
And of course, thanks again for listening and catch you next time.
