Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast where I interview interesting
people doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
This week on the podcast features a series of conversations with speakers from the AI Summit
in New York City.
The theme of that conference and this series is AI in the Enterprise and I think you'll
find a really interesting mix of both technical and case study oriented discussions this week.
Please note that on Wednesday December 13th we'll be holding our last Twimble online
meet-up of the year.
Bring your thoughts on the top machine learning and AI stories of 2017 for our discussion
segment and for our main presentation Bruno González will be discussing the paper, understand
and deep learning requires rethinking generalization by Shi Yuan Zhang from MIT and Google Brain and
others.
You can find more details and register at twimbleai.com slash meet-up.
To close out our AI Summit New York series I speak with Sharif Mietius, head of technology,
digital and strategy at restaurant chain TGI Fridays.
Sharif joins us to discuss how Fridays is utilizing conversational AI to enhance customer
loyalty.
Sharif wants Fridays to be known as a tech company that happens to sell burgers and beer
and in this conversation we get an in-depth look at the technology landscape they've
put in place to move the company in that direction.
Sharif also shares some of the things on the horizon for Fridays as well as some of
what they've learned along the way.
Be sure to share your feedback or questions on the show notes page which you'll find at
twimbleai.com slash talk slash 82.
This AI Summit series is brought to you by our friends at IBM Power Systems.
IBM Power Systems offers servers designed for mission critical applications and emerging
workloads including artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, advanced
analytics and high performance computing.
IBM Power Systems benefit from a wide range of open technologies, many stemming from
collaboration with fellow open power foundation members and they're designed to deliver
performance efficiently, whether deployed in private, public or hybrid clouds.
To learn more about the IBM Power System AC-922 platform for Enterprise AI, visit twimbleai.com
slash IBM Power.
And now on to the show.
Alright everyone, I am on the line with Sharif Mityas.
Sharif is CIO and Vice President of Strategy with TDI Fridays.
Sharif, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Thank you.
Pleasure to be here.
Absolutely.
Why don't we get started by having you tell us a little bit about your background and
how you came to get involved in AI?
Yeah, well it's been a securitus route.
I started my career actually in consulting, worked with a number of Fortune 500 retailers,
restaurant brands, consumer products organizations, and really through my career helping organizations
think about kind of really innovation, talking about how do we create, how do we evolve and
really drive innovation from an organizational perspective to allow us to better meet really
the end-state goals, whether that is drive revenue, reduce cost, greater guest engagement,
and really as the underpinnings of that throughout my career has been technology.
Technology enables us to do different things, to do things that allows us to look at things
differently really at scale.
And for very large organizations being able to do things at an individual or customer level
is really enabled by technology, you'll never have enough bodies, so to speak, to be able
to target individual guests without the use of technology and so as my career continued
to evolve, continued to rely and really utilize technology to drive innovation.
And now in my current role, really driving kind of the question of what's next for restaurants,
what's next for engaging guests both inside our four walls as well as outside and really
utilizing the power now of AI and chatbots and the new technologies to create a different
level of guest engagement, to really create more intimacy and that one-to-one connection
that every brand strives to have.
We go back to the first TGI Fridays over 50 years ago, was that first bar and grill
in New York where the bartender connected one-on-one with that guest and coming back now 50
plus years later when we serve over 500,000 guests per day across our network globally, how
do we go back to connecting with those individuals on a one-to-one basis?
AI allows us to do that.
Can you elaborate on how if you think about it at face value, maybe you think about it
in the opposite way, right, that AI kind of gets in between human-to-human connections?
How are you saying how are you looking at it?
Yeah, so we're looking at really in two ways.
I mean, the old adage of, you know, help me be better and don't hinder, right?
So from a do-no-harm is kind of the physicians adage.
And so when we think about AI and really specifically technology, it's how does it make
our people better?
How does it make our team members in the restaurants better?
How does it make us better from a corporate perspective and in really in two ways?
So, you know, from a, when our guests are outside our restaurants, they're on social platforms,
they're talking to voices, sister devices, they're doing things on a daily basis, whether
mobility or, you know, sitting behind a desk, that drives engagement, that they want to
be engaged, right?
They want to talk to their friends, they want to understand what's happening, they want
to share things.
And we use AI to be part of that conversation.
So through our chatbots, for example, we use AI to listen.
We understand when people are talking about certain drinks.
We understand when it's a hot day in New York and they're talking about long island ice
teas.
And so we use AI to capture first information and then to suggest the next best action,
right?
So for that individual guest who's thinking about that old adage, you know, kind of, what
do I do tonight?
You know, what are we, what are we going to do tonight?
Where are we going to go?
Being part of their daily kind of interaction with their friends on the social platforms,
utilizing AI to come up with that, well, send this individual, this specific content at
this specific time on this specific platform is really powerful.
So being able to connect with individuals using technology allows the people that our
social media team, for example, to have higher level conversations, they know more about
these guests.
They're using AI to be smarter in how they respond in certain cases.
So we have the bots respond, but we also have humans still respond and it makes them better.
Similarly inside our restaurants, we have loyalty members, for example.
And so if I can tell the host or hostess through AI that a loyalty member is in the bar,
and this is what they've had before, this is their favorite drink, this is how they like
to engage.
Imagine how much more powerful that information is for a bartender or a host or a server
knowing who that individual guest is and we make them better.
We create a better experience for the guest because we know who you are and we provide
that information through the technology to our servers inside the restaurant.
In that latter scenario, where does AI come in relative to traditional loyalty types
of technology is like a CRM system?
Yeah, so what we do is the data, the CRM, the guest profile information, it sits behind
the scenes, but AI then says, okay, I know not only who this person is, but given what
others have done, what other actions people have taken, I suggest you offer X. I suggest
that we surprise and delight this guest because we can show a return on offering whatever
it is that second drink we can offer something suggestive that we feed to our servers or bartenders
to be able to kind of again deliver the next best action as it relates to our guest.
So it's beyond predictive, it's really around what are some of the different options that
the machine is telling us should work to help either drive loyalty, increase frequency
or drive the check average higher.
So your initial efforts in this space have been focused on chatbots both outside the
store and in the store, taking a step back, how did you think about the space of AI and
the opportunity presented by AI as a whole and determine where to start?
Yeah, that's a great question.
So we kind of started, and again, I'll profess, we are still in the crawl of the crawl walk
run.
I think we all are.
Yeah.
And this sector is, this technology is really, I think we're just starting to scratch
the service.
So when we step back, we obviously did the first thing, which is we just talked to a lot
of people, you know, the old, you know, I'm a big proponent of, don't be the smartest
person in the room.
And so we reached out to a lot of folks, we reached out to a lot of different third parties
and partners and just started understanding, understanding what are the use cases out
there?
Right?
What are what are other people at least exploring?
Whether that be, and we heard a lot about customer service, right?
So we talked a lot of folks that were using AI in their, in their help desks and their,
you know, customer service, you know, call centers.
And that was interesting.
And we obviously have our own call center and people call 1-800 Fridays.
So we felt that was, you know, interesting, but too far removed, right?
We were, we were wanting to use AI more around that first interaction or that kind of very
user kind of guest facing activity that, again, is understanding how they think about considering
where they're going to go tonight for a food or a beverage occasion.
So instead of kind of what I would consider kind of the, the back end when, when someone
wants to call you and ask a question, I wanted to get out in front of it.
And be more kind of using AI to really understand the voice of the customer and to be able to
respond with more relevant and more personalized content.
So that's what really started the path on.
So how do we do that?
And so we started from a guest first perspective that said, well, where are our guests when
they're not with us, where, where are they and what are they doing?
Obviously, they're on social, obviously, they're talking to things, they're, they're typing
things.
We started our journey by understanding where they are and then start, and then ask questions
on what do we want AI to solve, right?
So we went back to some of the KPIs and said, well, from a, from a metrics perspective,
we're after, you know, loyalty, we want, we want loyal guests.
We want them to come in more often, right?
So from a frequency perspective, and we want them to spend more when they're with us,
whether they're dining inside a restaurant or picking up an order to go or delivered.
And so if you start with those questions, then you, then you kind of work backwards and
say, well, how can AI help that?
Well, first we need to understand, right?
So to me, the first thing that AI really before we got into God into AI is we had to, we
had to, we had to listen, we had to collect data.
And that led us to chatbots, right?
Because chatbots are not only just delivery mechanisms, they're listening mechanisms as well.
They help you understand what people are talking about, what questions, what dialogues they're
having as it relates to the brand.
Then we had to connect the dots.
So then we used some other third parties to say, okay, I've got purchase behavior.
I know what people buy.
I know when they buy it.
I know I know where they are when they buy it.
And then I have all these interactions that are happening on social platforms and voice
enabled devices.
I also have kind of information when they call or one 800 Fridays call centers.
I know credit card data, I know four square data, I know all this data.
But now I need someone, I need something to stitch it together and help me understand
what to do with it, right?
Kind of what, what do I do with this?
How do I pull the insights and create that next best action for my guest?
And that's kind of the path we took.
I imagine a big part of the challenge in approaching these various AI projects has been
in that latter piece that you made sounds so easy with connecting the dots, right?
Can you elaborate on some of what went into making all that happen?
Yeah.
So again, it goes back to not being the smartest people in the room.
We partnered with kind of a very early stage startup out of Seattle that really helped
us pull all this structured and unstructured data together and started creating not just
micro segments, but really the opportunity to differentiate, you know, Sally versus Mary.
And we ran a bunch of pilots, as you can imagine, to, you know, really start holding in
on, well, do we really know Sally?
And then I know someone that looks like Sally, but she's slightly different.
So I don't know her name yet.
So let's call her Sally B and Sally C. And so we started kind of really, again, creating
many personas of individual guests and this, this, this tool really helps us, again, literally
I use the vernacular and they use it before I even met them, connect the dots.
Because they're, everyone swims in data.
It's this opportunity to really pull it together and say, this is Sally and Sally need something
different than Mary, even though they'd be in that same demographic, psychographic, geographic
bucket.
They are two totally different individuals.
And our first pilot was crazy.
I mean, we, we did this where we just took a group of people that we had identified their
individual personas was about 10,000 people.
How are those 10,000 selected?
We basically just because we, we, we believed we knew a lot about them through this, this
data stitching activity.
They weren't loyalty members, right?
So we didn't, we didn't have them already in our database.
These were just individual guests that we had been able to pull from there, again,
gastrointactivity, their online activity, their social activity, et cetera.
And we sent them a message.
We sent them a message on whatever platform they happened to be on if they had given
us permission.
So they had obviously interacted with us somehow in the past, but they weren't loyalty members.
We sent them a message, non, a non-discount message that was just relevant to them.
So for instance, Mary, we knew, liked for whatever reason, she drank wine on Tuesday nights.
And she always had a girl's night on Tuesday nights.
So we figured it might be some book club, might be something that was encouraging Mary to
have wine on Tuesday nights.
Okay.
So we sent a message to Mary about a wine special just for her on Tuesday night at her local
Fridays.
And you said that's not, it wasn't discount, it wasn't a discounted promotion.
It was some other kind of special.
It was just a special like we have this new wine at our restaurant.
We'd like you to come try it.
And we sent it to her Tuesday at 5 p.m., right?
So right before we knew she was about to go out, well, each person of this 10,000 had
a different message like that.
We had a 78% click-through rate.
And then out of that 78%, we tracked half of that group actually ordered something that
we could tell, because we knew that we were able to track them.
Some people we couldn't track.
So they may have ordered, but they used cash or something we didn't know.
Without a discount, we drove purchase of one third of that group.
And so it was the power again of a very personalized message at the right time that was powered
basically by this AI tool that we had partnered with.
And what was that company?
They're called Imperity.
Imperity?
Yep.
And is that something where, is that like a cloud service of some sort, or is it software
that you're running or more service that they delivered?
It's a service they deliver.
Okay.
Interesting.
Interesting.
And so you've kind of collected all this, well, you actually did you find in going
through the process that there was some data that you needed that you didn't have?
There's always data.
There's always, you're always like to have more in this business, obviously.
And I think it really comes down to the ability to really connect with folks that piece of
information that says, I want to go beyond email and in-app messages, right?
It's the ability to figure out specifically, you know, I'm tied to you here.
You're talking to my bot on Facebook or on Twitter, you know, understanding exactly how
I can, I can provide a message on various devices at the right time because we're still
a little hindered by you have to approve every kind of communication channel.
More information there and more ability to connect with you beyond just email and in-app
would be obviously be powerful.
The other piece that we're trying to get into is friends of people that we know, right?
So going back to Mary, I know Mary went out for Tuesday, wine.
I don't know enough yet about Mary's friends, right?
And the group that we also are trying to target, as you can imagine, are very friend driven
from a recommendation engine perspective, right?
So when a group of friends, someone always asks, well, where are we going tonight?
They take the input of their friends, right?
So if I can get one of those friends to suggest Fridays, first, I got to win, right?
And so we're really working hard now to understand, okay, how do I get into the networks of these
people that I know to create more engagement, to create more recommendation opportunities,
to be able to extend, basically, our reach of those that we really know into those that
we would like to know and help us recommend.
And what does that mean for you to explore something like that?
Do you have some set of folks that are kind of dedicated to R&D or you doing, you have
kind of an evolving proof of concept or some effort that you're working on to try to
explore these avenues, or is it more keeping your eyes open and ears to the ground and
seeing what other folks are doing?
Yeah.
So right now, we have a couple of people that, again, I kind of dedicate to the, what's
next category?
They're always kind of searching, talking to, you know, new startups, third parties to understand,
what's emerging, what's possible.
And so they are kind of my, you know, my seekers, so to speak, in terms of going out and
trying to understand what can we leverage, what's new and innovative.
In this case, in that specific example, I gave, we have early conversations going in terms
of how to make that happen.
We don't have a pilot rolling out yet, but to me, it's the next piece we need to push
through.
In terms of the, get it down the, I forget what was the name of the company that you
mentioned?
Amparity.
Amparity.
And I guess I'm curious about the various technology pieces and platforms that were used
to pull all this together.
So Amparity, it sounds like they had a big part in the connecting the dots pieces, you
know, pulling information from, I'm assuming, various silos that you've got your CRMs,
your transactional systems, et cetera, and making that available via some fashion.
But then there are pieces like the chat platform itself.
Did you use an off-the-shelf platform, or did you build one yourself?
Some of the AI or analytics pieces that you describe for determining the next best offer,
you know, is that stuff that you built yourself or stuff that you used off the shelf?
Can you talk a little bit about the technology landscape that enables all this?
Sure.
So, the underlying, what I'll call data warehouse areas is powered by Microsoft.
We're obviously all in the cloud with Azure.
We have, you know, the data lakes that house all the information for us, kind of feeding
that.
Obviously, we have all our tier-point transactional data, whether that be from our restaurants
that's driven by, from a front-of-house perspective, micros, back-of-house, NCR.
We have the online platform that drives data into that, which is powered by Adobe and
our hybrid platform from SAP.
So those are kind of the big pieces of data, you know, moving on to the new technologies
like our chatbots and the AI that powers those.
We partnered with a great firm out of Austin called Conversable and Conversable Powers.
All of that for us, whether it be on Facebook, Twitter, Amazon Alexa, and we just launched
with GM's on-star platform, so we're in millions of on-star vehicles now.
Do people actually use that?
They do.
Believe it or not.
Yes.
And, you know, we've just started with them.
So we don't have the ordering turned on, but we have the, you can make a reservation for
a table like on your way in the car, you're looking for a restaurant, it obviously gives you
directions to the local Fridays.
Pretty soon we'll have the capability to, you know, have your first drink waiting for
you at the table on your way.
So yeah, I mean, we got a lot of fun things planned, again, engaging, we're a fun and social
brand.
Yeah, yeah.
But Conversable helps power all that.
They also have the AI engine behind that that allows us to, again, create the machine creates
new content personalized to the conversation that's occurring across the different platforms.
That all, again, feeds into, it's kind of a loop into impurity that helps us understand
these personas, connects the dots, feeds that back into things like conversable so that
the machine learns and can be better at targeting what they say to Mary versus Sally.
So that's really the core engines of our technology.
With regards to the work that Conversable did and or rather the work that you did around
the chatbot, like how much of the process of getting that up and running did the vendor
do versus your team do and where kind of where the interfaces and the leverage points and
things like that, that question makes any sense.
Yeah, sure.
No.
You know, again, we relied, you know, in that example on Conversable, a great deal to really
help from a technical perspective and from an integration perspective, obviously working
with the Facebook and Twitter's and Amazon's of the world, GM of the world to do all the
integration pieces to really set up, again, kind of the wireframe, so to speak, the building
blocks of what we need to have.
So my team was more around helping what I would call tailor the experience, you know,
and making sure that it's, you know, it's in a Friday's voice, right, and making sure
that it's connecting in the right way so that, you know, A, the bots are not inappropriate,
they're doing the right things, right?
So the, I would say the walls, the house, you know, is built by Conversable, I would
say, you know, my team is more around putting the paint on the walls and the artwork on
the walls to make sure it's ours versus some generic bot.
So the, the bots, you know, there's this whole integration piece that talks to all of
the various platforms and then there's the natural language, just understanding natural
language, processing stuff that, you know, typically is like understanding the intense,
the intent of the person that you're talking to and like, what are the various, you know,
entities and things like that that people might be talking about and all of that kind
of stuff is that all things that your team had to come up to speed on or is that stuff
that you relied on the vendor to handle for you?
Yeah.
Great deal of that.
We, we relied on Conversable.
Obviously, as my team got more learned, I would say, we had more input.
We started asking more questions that helped, I think, make the combined team better.
And I think, but yeah, clearly this was a, this was a, we kind of jumped with both feet,
not sure where we were landing.
We relied a great deal on our partners to get us up to speed quickly.
And then really a lot of that initial, what I'll call, trial and error.
We continue to refine, refine, refine as we got smarter, as we got smarter, they got smarter
in terms of what our guests were doing from an interaction perspective.
And really, I think the, the issue, the interesting piece was the nuance in terms of how do you
have to refine it by platform?
Just doing what we did when we launched Facebook as our first one, you couldn't just replicate
it onto Twitter.
It was a different conversations, different guests, different, just different vernacular
in certain cases that we had to employ, right?
Because it's a different user group in a lot of, in a lot of cases.
And then similarly, when we went to Amazon, right, it's a completely different, because
people are talking versus typing.
And so is that kind of refinement on to your point?
How do you ensure that your, your understanding, the context of the discussion is very different
by platform.
And that's really where we started to integrate and started to work together a lot more.
Because we could see these conversations happening even before the bot, right?
We were talking to people with humans.
And so that's where we started inputting a lot more in terms of the tone and the content
that that we needed to have to be Fridays in these conversations.
And so was this effort entirely driven by IT, or did you partner with a particular area
of the business to drive this forward?
And you know, what are kind of at least the Fridays, like what do those relationships
look like with regards to AI or the businesses kind of asking for this stuff, or are you more
out in front trying to figure it out and providing examples that will get them interested?
Yeah, I think initially we were out in front.
You know, this was something that we were pushing.
I wanted to push specifically, because I felt it helped differentiate us from our competition,
right?
We're looking for, you know, how do we be different?
And I don't, I don't want to compete against chilies and apple bees, because I don't
consider them my competition.
I consider a competition of anyone that's thinking about going for a drink or some bite of
food, right?
And so that's a much larger landscape, and so I'm competing against Starbucks in certain
cases, right?
And so I think, you know, we have to be more technologically forward and innovative in
the eyes of our guests.
So we pushed a lot of that initially, but I'll tell you, as soon as we started doing some
of these tests, and we started, you know, partnering and showing our friends in my counterpart
in marketing, you know, they came right on board.
They're like, now they're pushing us like, you know, faster or more, right?
Let's, I want to know Sally versus Mary, because I want to send them specific content,
right?
So they're pushing and we're, we have a great partner, my CMO colleague Stephanie Perdue
and I are connected at the hip on this and really working to figure out, again, how do
we continue to push the needle here, similarly on the operation side, you know, bringing
those that the benefit of AI into our operators and into the four walls, you know, our, our
head of operations here and I are also now like, what's next?
You know, can we, can we give wearables to the servers so that they're, they're getting
real-time information about who's walking on the door?
And so it's a lot of, again, people have started to see the power of what this can do.
And now we're, I'd say we're much more relaxed to have been in terms of how fast, how far,
you know, and how much.
And so how do you see the role of the IT viewer organization shifting to accommodate the
broader interest in these technologies?
Yeah, I mean, to me, our role still has to be what's next.
For us, you know, I pride my team in pushing them to really continue to push the ball
forward, continue to ask the question, what's next?
What are other people even thinking about that we can be first, right?
So, you know, we were, we were first to use Amazon Pay on Amazon Alexa.
We're the, one of the first brands on new GM on-stars marketplace where, you know,
one of the first brands to connect one click ordering on Facebook and Twitter.
And so those types of things to me again help differentiate us, you know, I look to the
Starbucks and the Domino's of the world because they are truly technology companies that
happen to sell coffee and pizza.
I want Fridays to be recognized from a technology perspective as being technology first, technology
forward that happened to sell beer and ribs.
And then I think we get rewarded for that.
I think our guests appreciate that.
And so that to me is the role that my team has and very proud of their work and their
efforts because they continue to lead and drive the innovation forward.
Do you have a short list of things that you see as being that next, those next set of
things?
Yeah, I really want to do more with bringing digital inside the restaurant, right?
We, a lot of, a lot of effort by us in our counterparts is, you know, when people are
walking around outside the four walls, right?
All the mobile things and I, you know, are my big push for this coming year is how do
we bring those digital experiences inside the four walls, you know, whether it's an
interactive bar, a virtual bartender, you know, there's so many things that you can think
about bringing technology, not an obtrusive fashion, but again, to support the environment
that social occasion we want our guests to have with our team members and bartenders.
How does technology potentially play there and make it not only fun, but creates a unique
experience that guests say, well, that's cool and the only place I can do that is at Fridays.
That's what we're really pushing for next year and I think the next couple of years is
to create that more seamless integration between off premise and in restaurant as it relates
to digital and how AI and some of the other technologies can help support that.
And are there specific directions that you're playing in ahead to enable that or you kind
of still trying to figure all that out?
Well, I can't spill all my secrets on this, but you know, I think there's a lot of things
that are in the works.
We're still trying to figure some of it out, to be honest, I have the benefit of having
a test restaurant, so to speak, a little lab that we get to try fun things.
So, you know, we're...
Oh, that sounds like a lot of fun.
It's a ton of fun.
So, I've been able to try bar tops that are like iPads and being able to do things around
the TVs around our bar that bring again the guests into the experience.
So, those are just little teasers and we'll have to talk next year, so I can give you
more.
Awesome.
And then as you think to rolling all of this out, what strike you as some of the big challenges
that you'll face in the process?
Yeah, I think the biggest two big challenges.
One is to make sure we don't get too far in front of our guests or our organization.
And what I mean by that is, you know, sometimes technology, just for technology's sake, can
be a massive failure, right?
It gets too far in front, guests aren't sure what to do with it.
They don't see it as a value, our operations can't support it, so I can give good information
to someone, but if they don't do anything with it, it was a failed exercise, right?
And so, I think it's making sure that we continue to be in lockstep and have our guests tell
us what they're looking for, you know, in certain cases to be more convenient, frictionless,
more fun, social, et cetera.
And there are operators as well that tell us what they can handle and what they can, we
can ensure they execute on a daily basis across our 900 plus restaurants.
I think the other piece that we have to just make sure of is that again, there's a lot
of cool things we can do, right?
And at the end of the day, you know, cool doesn't pay the bills.
We have to make sure that everything we do is tied to an ROI, it's tied to a returnable,
you know, whether that be, you know, obviously revenue is the easiest thing to measure, but
even guest engagement and frequency and loyalty and, you know, if it doesn't tie back to one
of those strategic pillars, then it may be cool, but it's not going to be for us.
And so I think we have to continue to always, I would say, measure ourselves or guard ourselves
against getting too far out and then also doing things that just have PR value, but don't
really move the needle for the organization, right?
Anything else you'd like to leave the audience with?
Well, I think the only thing I think, you know, if people are even considering doing
this or they're starting their efforts, you know, to me, there's just a few lessons
learned that I would, I would impart here at the end, you know, one again is really take
your time, you know, there's no word for speed in this area, you know, the technology can
get overwhelming, take your time, learn it, test the heck out of it, make sure it's right
for what you want to achieve, because it can do a lot, but it can also get you in trouble
if you don't have some guardrails.
The second thing I'd say is, you know, going back to the earlier conversation, don't
try to do this alone, this is a wide open kind of Wild West Frontier, there are some
good emerging partners out there, my suggestion is to utilize them even if it's to have a conversation
so that you don't, you don't bloody your knees where that path's already been taken.
And finally, just always remember what you're doing it for.
In our case, it's for the guest and ensuring that you always kind of keep that in mind and
tie it back to, you know, what are the key questions that you're trying to answer and
is it really going to make, you know, your customer, your guest better in terms of their
interaction, their experience with your brand. For us, that's kind of the holy grail, if
it doesn't impact them in a positive light, in a positive way, then we don't do it.
That all sounds like excellent advice. Sounds like you've been down this road a few times.
Yes. A lot of bloody knees.
Well, Sharif, thank you so much for taking the time to chat with me this morning. I really
appreciate all the insights into what you're doing there at Fridays.
Thank you so much. I appreciate the time.
All right, everyone. That's our show for today. Thanks so much for listening and for your
continued feedback and support. For more information on Sharif or any of the topics
covered in this episode, head on over to twimmelai.com slash talk slash 82. To follow along with the
AI Summit series, visit twimmelai.com slash AI Summit. Of course, you are encouraged to
send along your feedback or questions to us, either by leaving a note right on the
show notes page or via Twitter at twimmelai or at Sam Charrington.
Thanks again to IBM Power for their sponsorship of this series. For more information about
the IBM Power Systems platform for Enterprise AI, visit twimmelai.com slash IBM Power.
Thanks once again for listening and catch you next time.
