Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
In this episode I'm joined by GK Centil, director and chief product owner for innovation at Toyota
Connected.
GK and I spoke about opportunities and challenges for smart cars.
We discussed Toyota's recently announced partnership with Amazon to embed Alexa in
vehicles and more generally the approach they're taking to get connected car technology
up to par with smartphones and other intelligent devices we use on a daily basis.
We cover in-car voice recognition and touch on the ways that machine learning and AI need
to be developed to be useful in vehicles as well as the approaches for getting there.
And now on to the show.
All right everyone, I am on the line with GK Centil.
GK is chief product owner for innovation at Toyota Connected.
GK, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
I'm glad to be here, sir.
Why don't we get started by having you tell us a little bit about how you got involved
in AI there at Toyota?
Sure.
My background is in software engineering, I've been in this field for about 18 years.
I did my bachelors in electronics and communication.
So for the last seven years or so, I'm fully involved in connected cars.
Connected cars come in all shapes and sizes and my relationship with Toyota was since 2011
and I've been with Hyundai and Toyota on and off in the last few years.
So in the past year or so, I've taken a lead on this group within Toyota Connected called
Innovation, which the objective of this is to find new products, new services, new ideas
to enhance the connected car experience for our customers.
And so that's where we started off with the machine learning and AI in terms of looking
at conversational interfaces for our customers in various endpoints.
And that's really how the involvement with AI and ML started and we've been doing few
different things in that area for the past nine months to an year.
It's pretty incredible how just a few years ago, we would think of the autumn, at least
those of us, or I guess I should just say myself, I don't know about anyone else, but
I would think about cars as not very technology-forward things, right?
You kind of have these built-in consoles that were many years behind what you get every
day with your phone and it seems like the industry is really waking up to the opportunity and
really the way consumers want to integrate technology kind of across through their lives.
Yes, I don't know, how do you think about the role of the connected car?
Yes, I'm going to say, tell me about it, right?
It's been a topic of everybody who's been using smartphones for the last few years in
the sense that they have this piece of technology that's sitting in their hands, that does various
things and then they go into the cars and what they see is really several years behind
like you said, in terms of not just the technology, it's also the user interface, how it behaves
and how it really helps customers carry on their connected lives into the vehicle.
So we all certainly know that cars have a much bigger role to play or can provide much
better experience when it comes to connected lives.
Which, American, I heard probably commutes about 10 hours a week or 6 to 10 hours a week,
so that's a waste of opportunity right now.
And without having this fixed, what we see is more accidents, more distractions, having
customers trying to use their smartphone as a replacement for an in-makel device, it's
not really designed to be.
And I believe there is plenty of things that we can do to improve that and not just make
use of this time in a effective way, so customers are not distracted, so safety is one aspect
of this.
The other aspect is essentially making this time a lot more productive, a lot more joyful
in the driving experience, we still wait for autonomous cars which may take 10 or more
years to become mainstream, I think we still have a lot more to do in the connected car
world.
One of the ways that the various car manufacturers have tried to allow us to safely engage with
our vehicles is through voice interfaces, and this is again one of those experiences
where, you know, for a few years now, like the phone kind of voice interaction experiences
was way ahead of the car interactive voice interface.
But the cars are now talking about, I guess I see a couple of different strategies.
One is just kind of advancing the technology.
The other is just wholesale outsourcing it to things like Alexa or other companies versions
of those things.
How does that landscape look to you and what's the approach to that at Toyota?
Yeah, I think you reached the core of this, you know, current technology landscape in
terms of, you know, how it's going to pan out.
You're right, the existing versions of voice recognition, you know, operate on, you
know, predefined phrases, and you have to be in a certain application in a certain screen
to use certain words to utilize voice recognition, it's very frustrating.
I haven't seen anybody actively using it successfully in their cars, you know, and we spend
a lot of money on this, so to actually put this in the cars, but unfortunately, it's
not really useful.
So the next wave is obviously, you know, taking from the home experience where we have these
virtual assistants sitting in terms of, you know, what you see as Alexa or Google Assistant.
So, and of course, the smartphones provide similar experience, so customers want to carry
that over.
And that's obviously the next wave of the experience that's the, you know, the customers
need in the car and what we also want to provide in the car, which is, you know, fully natural
language, you know, conversational dialogue oriented, you know, use in, you know, it understands
the context, it understands, you know, what your habits and provides response. So voice is
definitely the key aspect of understanding what the customer needs.
The technology that Google and Alexa brings and how that's going to fit in the car, you
know, whether the automakers are going to outsource to these players.
I think there are few key things to understand.
So the vehicle is not a smartphone equivalent.
I think there are a lot of misconceptions. Yes, in a way, it is an extension of your digital
life. It's another device. It's an electronic screen. So there is some comparison there.
But also vehicle, you know, you are actually using it for driving from point A to point
B. It's not a thousand dollar device. It's a $30,000 device or $40,000 device.
Right.
So as a customer, you know, I should be able to comfortably use my vehicle through my
muscle memory. And there are a lot of things when it comes to just the user experience.
How the customer interacts with a car versus a phone. So I believe it's a hybrid of, you
know, the technology that Google or Amazon provides with respect to their assistance and deep
integration into what the vehicle can do and, you know, how the vehicle ecosystem works.
I think a hybrid of these would provide the best of experience to the customer. And we
are ready to, we are actively working on this. We're actively looking into various aspects
from, you know, user experience to data protection to privacy and, you know, all these different
aspects on how this, you know, what the exact model that's going to help the customers.
Ultimately, that's the aim here to help the customer. So if you look at deep vehicle
integration, we have access to the vehicle, you know, controllers, the data that comes
out of the vehicle, you know, we know how driving works. We know automotive. So the virtual
assistant in the car has to be able to take advantage of that needs to know, you know,
okay, my gasoline or fuel tank is just, you know, 10% more and should I suggest a gas
station nearby. And this is data that we have about the car and we know that customer,
you know, typically prefers filling it in the last minute versus, you know, some customer
that, you know, really talking about filling the gas tank when it's just quarter more.
So all these have to be taken into consideration building this experience.
Can you give some other examples of kind of how the, you know, when you think of this,
like hybrid experience that enables use cases that's not really attainable by just pulling
in a third party thing like an Alexa, what are the things that like most jump out at you?
I think there are, you know, most customers when you when you are in the car, you know,
three main things. So navigation, you want to go from, you know, one place to another
place, you want to find, you know, interesting places to go or restaurants to go. So it's,
you know, can put everything under navigation. Definitely media consumption, whether it's
music or podcasts or, you know, anything that you do in the car takes up majority of your
time. And then communication, which is, you know, just essentially messaging, which is,
which is one of the most distracting aspects of vehicle. So these three key areas, you
know, I firmly believe it needs to be customized for the vehicle and how the vehicle operates
and, you know, how you interact with your steering wheel switches another tactical knobs in a way.
So these are some of the areas which could be done well by both the, you know, OEMs,
the automotive OEMs and the players that are out there. So this is something that needs to be
carefully considered on how we do. The vehicle specific use case, one I already mentioned like
about knowing your fuel levels. The other could be about your driving behaviors, right? So,
you know, there are use cases where you could actually essentially coach the, coach the driver on
how their driving is, you know, take their emotions in future, you know, could be facial recognition.
Are they tired? Are they sleepy? You know, are they frustrated? Are they driving it a little bit
more rashly? You know, we can detect all this. And so it's not, then it becomes not just
why it becomes multimodal, right? So you're essentially being an assistant, listening,
observing and, you know, providing some suggestions. And this requires inputs from multiple
vehicle sensors and knowing how the customer drives, right? And what are the different reactions
in the vehicle systems that are causing this to provide, you know, and this could ultimately save
lives or save time or so. Those are the examples I could think of, but, you know, vehicle has,
you know, various aspects to it when it comes to a life cycle of a customer on how they use the
vehicle. So things that you could see like service, right? After like maintenance. So your oil
quality is low. Do you want to take it for an oil change? So these are some other examples where
you integrate with the dealership or ecosystem. And that's something where we can, we can provide a
lot more oil, a lot of oil through the system. What kind of approaches are you taking to, to kind
of get there? So without talking about any secret sauce, like I said, we're looking at, you know,
from a plain natural language point of view, we're looking at, you know, conversational interfaces,
building it, looking at the variety of technology solutions that could satisfy this need and how
that could be integrated into the vehicle ecosystem. I think that's kind of in a couple of
statements summarized, you know, all the activities we do. And, you know, also, you know, just working
with, you know, variety of players in this area and see, you know, what can be bought off the shelf,
what can be integrated as a service. And those are also some of the things we are looking at.
From AI or ML perspective, it's essentially building this conversational interface and scaling it up
for millions of users, you know, whether through vehicles or through the chatbots for customer
service are also some of the things we are looking at. And what's your assessment of kind of the
landscape that you're seeing to date and kind of the readiness to support the vehicle use case?
Like are there, for example, in vehicles connectivity can be intermittent, but you still have,
you know, you potentially have people depending on these capabilities. Like are those some of the
challenges that you're facing and do you see the technology as being kind of evolved enough
to support those? Yes, connectivity is a good question. So connectivity is one aspect that
differentiates in a vehicle experience. So anything critical, you know, like we have services that
can, you know, inform a call center operator on an event of a crash, right? So even those services
currently rely on your 4G connectivity or wireless connectivity to operate. So,
but those services can operate with limited data connectivity. They're sending small amounts of
data, but when it comes to a voice experience, you're looking at, you know, streaming audio. So
there's definitely a challenge, but I believe it's been improving a lot in terms of coverage and
speeds. 4G is much more prevalent than, you know, just a few years ago. And it's going to be just
upgraded to faster speeds, wider coverage. So we need to still design for it. We need to still
design for connectivity issues, but I think given the nature of some of these services, most of them
are non-critical. You know, we turn them as infotainment service. So that should be something we can
take care of. The main aspect we are looking at is, you know, a conversational voice interface
in a vehicle is much different, could be much different than, you know, what you have at home
or a smartphone. I believe that's where, you know, the product design has to evolve to capture
that user experience and have the technology be able to support it, right? So simple examples
could be in your vehicle when you're asking for something, if the vehicle keeps asking for
confirmation, that could be very distracting, right? So there are certain things we need to work
around or change in the way the users work with the vehicle and also make it multimodal, right?
Because we have a heads up display, we have the dashboard, we have the multimedia unit as well.
So how can the visual and the auditory output combine and work together to make this user experience
better? So when you combine these, then even the technology has to adapt to these different
multimodal inputs in a way. So those are, you know, essentially some of the challenges.
Has Toyota announced specific, like a specific set of partners around this voice assistant
market or if not, you know, what's your general take on kind of the timeline for seeing that
technology in vehicles? We had already announced a partnership with Amazon and the CES.
So some form of Alexa experience is going to be brought into the vehicle for the immediate term.
I think for a more deeper integrated experience, it's going to take a few years.
You know, I can't give a specific timeline now. It's still looking into, you know, various aspects.
But I think the future where we are looking at a variety of vehicle inputs and integrating
into this experience is at least two or three years away for Toyota.
Not to say that we won't have an experience before that. It's just that there are various levels
to it, right? So when I talk about facial recognition and emotions and seeing, I think those are
definitely, you know, three to four years away. There's cost involved in having even a camera
to recognize your facial expression. So some of those, it would depend on whether it's a luxury
vehicle versus an economy vehicle. So those would also impact the timelines. In terms of partners
other than Alexa, I think we are working with, you know, different other players, not to name names,
but, you know, hopefully we'll soon, you know, announce those partnerships in the next few months.
Were you at CES this year? Yes, I was. Okay, I was there also. So maybe I see this question.
I've been kind of waiting for someone, a good person to ask this question. So you guys announced
this partnership with Alexa. And in fact, at, you know, CES, basically everyone was kind of
announcing these partnerships with Alexa and Google Assistant. And like, I feel like this is really
consumer driven or is this kind of the, you know, this ecosystem getting way out ahead of what
consumers want. Like, I don't, I've got Alexa's around here and Google Assistant's around here.
And, you know, they're basically, I say this all the time. Like, I think the technology is amazing.
And that over time, it will evolve to be, you know, extremely useful. And I think that
targeted voice interfaces definitely have a place. But right now, you know, I think of them as
like expensive timers and alarm clocks, right? So most expensive egg timer I have ever bought.
And I'm just not sure that it's the consumer that is driving these things into refrigerators
and washing machines and cars and ironing boards and like garage doors, everything. What do you
think? So I may have a different take on this. My personal opinion, not, you know, of course, not
to it as, but, you know, I got the Alexa when it first came out of the market pre-ordered, same
did with the Google Assistant and been using it. And, you know, my wife's opinion was the same
as yours. You know, why do we buy this expensive timer? I know this just, you know, and do two things.
But I think it has evolved over a period of time. You know, you started asking for weather and you
started playing music. Now, you know, we can't live without it for playing music, right? So
just come home, you know, and then say a command and you have a nice little background music going.
So I think the utility, even though it is limited, it's expanding. And once you know, and this is where
we, you know, there is an adaptation from the human side to say, this is how I use the technology
to get the best use, right? So you know exactly what to ask. So my daughter knows exactly what to ask.
And she knows if you ask it in a different way, it's not going to be useful. So I think when
when humans start learning how to use this technology for one thing at a time, maybe you're using
it just for timer today, tomorrow, you may use it for weather. So over a period of time, you start
using it for minor things. I think, and then six months down the line, I take away all the Alexa's
and Google homes from your home. You're going to be very frustrated, believe me. So I think there is
utility. It's limited, but it expands and humans start to learn and adapt on how to use it for
specific use cases at specific times. So there is definitely customer demand and you could look at
the sale of these, these units over the last holiday period. So and take that into the car,
it's, you know, whether it's customer demand or not, you need a really good conversational
interface in the car. There's no better place than car for these kind of interfaces, right?
Yeah. So there is part customer demand, but there's also part and need for this to have in the
vehicle, you know, 10 years ago, and you know, at least now we are starting to have these in the car.
So I feel, I feel it's, it's well-deserved attention given to these technologies to be brought
into the car better late than never. So I do, I agree that the car is one of the places where,
you know, particularly when you've, you've got the integrations that you've described, all set up
and figured out, you know, there's a lot of value there because, you know, until the car is driving
itself, like it'd be better for me to keep my eyes on the wheel than to, you know, dial a phone
or change the temperature or whatever. So that said, like when you think about an Alexa, what's the role
of Alexa? Is Alexa a service at the front end that's doing kind of the speech recognition and,
you know, is it a platform that's figuring out intense and all that kind of stuff or does Toyota
develop technology, you know, or need to develop technology that does all that because that's where
the integration needs to happen. And then Alexa is this back end kind of portal to a bunch of other
consumer services. That's again, going to the heart of the problem on, you know, what we are dealing
with. So you seem to have been involved in this for quite a time. So, but yeah, that's a very good
question. Multiple people have multiple opinions on this. My personal opinion is we need to have these
technologies as a base, you know, whether we build it or whether we get partners to do it, I think
these technologies are going to be used in various different interfaces, right? So even things like
chatbots for customer service, you know, today we have thousands of calls coming into our call center
asking about how to use a particular vehicle system or how to use a particular setting in their
navigation to do what they want to do. And, you know, we could we could reduce a lot of these
customer calls with, let's say, a simple chatbot available through their messenger app or whatever.
And then if you're able to do it really well, it's going to be much easier for the customer
rather than picking up the phone to get answers. So I think the technology as a base is going to
serve multiple endpoints. So we need to approach it from that perspective. And then your in-vehicle
is just another or more, you know, it's most important, but it's another interface for the customer.
So if you look at it from that perspective, it's definitely, you know, imperative for us to have
the technology to do this. And, you know, all these different ecosystems from from these
assistant providers bring all the integrations that they already have to add on to this experience.
I'm curious about maybe there's more like culture, you know, auto manufacturer culture meets AI
and like how that all works and are there, you know, things that you're seeing where, you know,
ways in which the organization is changing to adapt to kind of this new way of thinking about
interfaces or things like that or things that you think personally need to happen for large kind
of engineering culture, traditional engineering culture driven organizations like auto manufacturers
to adopt this technology. Yes. And that's a good segue. So I can talk about data connected.
So that's the reason Toyota connected was set up. So Toyota itself is a huge conglomerate
that everybody knows. Toyota connected is set up as a technology company to build this innovation
from within, right? So typically the service providers or, you know, companies that specialize in
product development, whether it could be AI, ML or, you know, natural language or anything else
for that matter. Now they are out, they're not the automotive company itself, right? So as an
automotive company, we know how customers, you know, we know what customers want, we know how
customers behave, we know how our vehicles behave. So just fusing these two, you know, the technology
and innovation capabilities with this domain experience is really a key area for us to move forward.
Right? So everybody has to become a technology company in order to survive in this new way of
thing. So, so that's that's the primary purpose. Toyota, you know, connected was set up. So with
the, you know, our management encourages innovation. It's an open culture startup atmosphere, except
with a nice backing of the huge Toyota name. And that's essentially brought into, you know,
attract talent who can, who can build this from within and make sure it gels with the customer
needs, right? So it's, it's like fusing this hardware and software together built by the same
same player has its own advantages. So that's, that's, that's what we're looking at,
to doing, at doing in Toyota connected. And I hope that answers your question is probably
if we're asking whether it's needed or not. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It sounds like it is. And it's,
that's kind of the way you're addressing it. And so what other, are there other ways that,
or areas that Toyota connected is looking at AI beyond, well, you mentioned, we talked extensively
about the voice interface. You mentioned chatbots as a customer service experience. So there are
other ways that Toyota connected is looking at AI. Yes. Toyota connected has built a connected,
you know, it's a car sharing platform. And you've probably heard about it in CES when, when our
president talked about E palette and some of those services that come with the car sharing
economy. And in fact, we had launched a pilot in, in Hawaii as well for car sharing. So that
is going to, you know, give us some opportunity to optimize the sharing economy in terms of,
you know, what are the best places in the town to keep cars so people can make it lies, you know.
So there's, there's a demand forecasting, you know, heat map. Can we change the pricing based
on the demand so we can get better utilization of the car? So there's a lot of things that you can do
with with ML in the in the car in the car sharing economy. There's also things around, you know,
preferences driver preferences, customer preferences to, you know, surface notifications.
And then like I said earlier, probably, you know, areas like coaching, you know, something we
have started working into using machine learning. So yes, there are plenty of other areas that we have
started investigation on how we can best leverage AI and ML. Awesome. Well, GK, thank you so much
for taking some time out to tell us a little bit about what you're up to. Thank you. Thanks.
It's been a pleasure talking to you. Great. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you.
All right, everyone. That's our show for today. For more information on GK or any of the topics
covered in this episode, you'll find the show notes at twimmolai.com slash talk slash 120.
If you're new to the podcast and you like what you hear or you're a veteran listener and
haven't already done so, please head over to your favorite podcast app and leave us your most
gracious rating and review. It helps new listeners find us, which helps us grow.
Thank you so much for listening and catch you next time.
