Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
This week we are super excited to celebrate the second anniversary of our favorite machine
learning and AI podcast.
With your help, we've hit a bunch of exciting milestones over the past year, including
surpassing 2 million plays, growing the meetup to nearly 800 members, and bringing you
over 115 interviews.
What an amazing ride.
To celebrate the anniversary, we'd like to hear from you about the ways the podcast
has helped you or your business, how it's enabled you to find or connect to resources
you've found valuable, or how it's educated you about new and interesting topics.
Submit your written or audio comments via the anniversary page we've set up at twimble.ai
slash 2av.
With your permission, we'll be including a few of your stories in a special podcast episode
coming soon, celebrating the twimble community.
In this episode, I'm joined by legendary chess champion, author, and fellow at the Oxford
Martin School, Gary Kasparov.
Gary and I sat down after his keynote at the Figure 8 Train AI Conference in San Francisco
last week.
Gary and I discussed his bouts with the chess playing computer deep blue, which became
the first computer system to defeat a reigning world champion in their 1997 rematch, and
how that experience has helped shape his thinking on artificially intelligent systems.
We explore his perspective on the evolution of AI, the ways in which chess and deep blue
differ from go and alpha go, and the significance of deep minds latest creation alpha go zero.
We also talk through his views on the relationship between humans and machines and how he expects
it to change over time.
Before we jump in, I'd like to send a shout out to our friends over at Figure 8 for their
continued support of the show and their sponsorship of this week's series, which all took place
at train AI.
Figure 8 is the essential human and loop AI platform for data science and machine learning teams.
To figure eight software platform trains, tests and tunes, machine learning models to
make AI work in the real world, learn more at www.figure-8.com.
Just a reminder, this episode was recorded live on site, so there's some unavoidable
background noise.
And now on to the show.
All right, everyone, I am here with Gary Kasparov.
Gary is chairman of the Human Rights Foundation, author of Winters Coming and Deep Thinking, a
visiting fellow at Oxford Martin School, and of course, the 13th world chess champion.
Gary, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Thanks for having me here.
Absolutely.
So, tomorrow, May 11th is a significant day for you.
For those that are not familiar with your story, maybe we can start out by having you tell
us a little bit about the significance of that day and kind of your path leading up to
it.
I think it was a significant day for computer science more than chess.
And now, 21 years later, so I can think about it, I can discuss it without the same anxiety
and even anger that I had at the time when I faced the blue for the second match.
I'll remind people, it was the second match because I won the first one in 1996.
And I lost this match.
And I heard even today at the conference here in San Francisco about many people talking
about moment of inspiration, not only within IBM, rank and files, but beyond that.
People saw the great accomplishments for machine eventually prevailing in the game of
chess.
It's in the game that always was viewed as the sort of pinnacle of human intelligence.
And at my presentation at train conference, I gave a little bit of a background of this
quest for holy grail in chess, beating chess wall champion was an ultimate goal for the
founding fathers of computer science.
They believed that would be the moment of revelation, the dawn of artificial intelligence.
And I have to say that somehow they were wrong.
How's that?
Because they expect it and we can hardly blame them for making this mistake.
Because these great, great men, the great minds, Alan Turing, Claude Shannon, Norbert
Wiener, they couldn't imagine the amount of brute force that was, that is, at our disposal
now, or even was it in 1997, they believed that for machines to make any significant progress
in conquering the human domain of cognition, machines will have to be intelligent.
It's more like emulating human thinking.
And the brute force that IBM could build into the blue to throw into the game of chess
in 1997 proved to be enough to play at the top level.
I think objectively speaking, when you look at the games we played in 1997, the blue was
not unbeatable.
It was probably even weaker objectively than I was at that time.
But this is a mistake many people made and still making.
And I think that for machine to dominate any game, it has to be perfect, no, it has to
be better.
Right.
Simply better, which means making less mistakes than humans.
And humans are pushed making mistakes.
Even the best humans, the world champions, the top players, we are vulnerable to all sorts
of factors, psychological pressure.
And the moment we make mistakes, we expose ourselves because machines, let's say they
have steady hand.
They're getting faster and faster and with this enormous amount of brute force and speed,
they already created a challenge that was very hard for humans to deal with.
And this is a pattern that we could observe in any activity.
First we think it's impossible.
Then machines are playing with us, competing with us, but they're laughingly weak.
Then it's a very narrow window of competition.
In chess it was from 1995 to roughly 2005.
And then machines are superior forever after.
You made the point earlier that people put a lot of significance on that date in 1997,
but to you, the turning point was earlier.
Yeah, it was earlier because it's, yeah, if we, if we want to be objective and scientific,
we should look at game one of our match with the blue in Philadelphia a year early in 1996,
I won the match, as I mentioned, but I lost game one.
And the fact is that machine could win one game on the normal tournament conditions against
current world champion, men that the rest won the better of time.
It could take a year, two, three, but, but it was already the writing on the wall with
capital letters, the boarding letters, which you thought it would take longer than it did.
I thought it would take longer, you know, I think I could have played better.
And after match with the blue, I played two other matches with other programs, chess engines,
deep freights and deep junior, one German program, one Israeli program, both matched in 2003,
both ended in a tie.
Again, objectively, these programs were as good as the blue, maybe even stronger, though
they didn't have the same computing power behind them.
But as I said, it was just, you know, protracted agony.
In 2005, it became apparent that human machine competition was over.
My successor, Vladimir Kramnik, who was a world champion, played two matches with deep
freights.
He tied one.
He lost the second one down the few other matches by prominent players.
And it was already one sided.
And it proved my point that I made immediately after 1997 match that we had to look already
beyond this competition for an opportunity to find a new algorithm of humans and machines
working together.
Because in chess, we could actually make these experiments, bringing humans' creativity,
humans' fantasy, humans' imagination, and to match it with machines' brute force
of calculation and memory.
So what does that actually mean in the context of chess, the two humans and machines tend
to operate at vastly different speeds?
No, no, but it's still, it's about your ability to get the best out of this combination.
Because you're going to have two players of roughly even strengths operating with the
same kind of hardware, even the same software, and you will end up with very different
results.
Because the trick is, and that's something that I think makes chess quite unique, testing
ground for all these scientific discoveries, that each machine requires, call it special
treatment.
Because no machine goes out of a sudden perfection.
And the human's role is to compensate for machines' deficiencies.
So to actually find exactly what is machine weakness and how we can use our human qualities
to cover it, to make sure that these weaknesses will not cause significant damage during the
game.
And the trick is that to succeed in playing in this team, human plus machine, you don't
need the strongest human and all the fastest machine.
You have to make sure that the interface is the most effective.
So that's why relatively weak human, with average computer, but superior interface, will
be dominant in the game of chess against stronger human player, faster machine, with inferior
interface.
Well, I'd like to come back to this point of the human machine interface in chess and
understanding the machine's weaknesses.
But before we do that, just to contextualize, deep blue, you'd like to refer to it as a
10 million dollar calculator or alarm clock or something.
That was relative to where we are.
It's the, I mean, deep blue would have never passed during tests.
Right.
But that's again, that's so what?
So this is, we don't realize how much help we receive from what Claude Shannon described
as type A machines.
It's brute force executing human instructions and tremendous speed.
So deep blue just proved that with massive processing power behind the program, you could
perform better than humans in the field of cognition.
Again, I want to emphasize it.
I think it's very important for people to realize it's not about solving the game.
It's about winning the game.
It's not about playing perfect game.
It's about playing better.
The same goes for driver's cars now.
People think, oh, yes, it's not safe.
Nobody tells you to be safe.
It will be safer.
Again, it's all about percentage.
So machines will never, will never be formed at the 100% precision.
But they will do step by step.
They will do things better, more effective than humans.
And that's all we have to look for.
It's just about improvements.
It's about incremental improvements that we're combined are just securing our progress.
So can you elaborate on the distinction between those two at any game of chess when the
human makes a move?
If the machine is doing a brute force analysis of all the possible, are they doing all
the possible?
No, it's impossible.
All the possible moves because according to what Claude Shannon, the number of legal
moves in the game of chess is 10 to the 45th power.
Sure.
It's number.
It's insane number.
It just doesn't exist.
It exists on paper.
No way machine can make calculate all the moves.
So at certain point, you need human intervention or to be more precise, humans guidance to help
to tweak a little bit the way machine is heading for.
And was that, how was that present in the match with deep blue?
No, the blue was me versus machine.
It was human versus machine.
So now when I leaking my wounds, I just realized that that was time to think about
the way for us to work together.
Though I still was ready to compete and I wanted to play the rematch with deep blue.
And as I said, deep blue, they're not being intelligent, denied me the rematch because
I think IBM recognized that the match, the match in 1998, I think I had a very good
chance of winning because I could be better prepared and there's nothing IBM could gain
out of this match.
It was bad for science, they decided not to play the third match, the rubber match because
I won the first one, they won the second, but it was good from the business perspectives.
And the IBM executives, they looked at the stock value.
So again, I can't complain, so as people said, okay, you made two mistakes, Gary, it's
not about chess.
A, you have not secured the next match, B, you have not secured stock options.
So how would you have prepared for that match differently?
I would have taken the blue more seriously because I didn't expect the progress they made
after the first match.
And also I would probably demand more transparency with the way the blue operated.
So just to understand more, because we needed some information about the blue.
I mean, for instance, one of the biggest mistakes I made preparing for the second match is
not reading the contract, actually not reading the fine print because to prepare you need
games of your opponent, you have to know how your opponent thinks.
If it's computed, it could even more important because machines are flexible than humans.
So by having some games, access to some games, you can understand how machine could make
decisions in some types of positions.
After the first match, I said I would need the blue games and they said absolutely.
And the contract said stipulated games will be provided and the fine print said only
played an official tournament.
And of course, the blue played only left.
So one of the things I would have demanded and they knew it, it's to have access to all
the blue games, to understand how they make certain improvements.
Then I would definitely insist on certain limitations of making changes for the programs during
the match.
I remember that it would have not secured my victory, but it definitely would put more
pressure on them because also I would start thinking about my preparation opening.
So when you lose, it's kind of a lot of time thinking about it.
You know that you have to make certain improvements.
And I was already contemplating what new things I could bring in.
And again, as I said, objectively, I was still stronger at that time.
And all I needed is just to spend maybe a couple of months confiding on this match, just
getting stronger physically, mentally.
So it would be a big challenge for IBM, they just walked away.
So deep blue wasn't even AI.
No, absolutely not.
That's what's annoying is that it was a great accomplishment, but it was type A machine,
a brute force.
You can even say that deep blue demonstrated the limitations of brute force.
So as the, it's, it's what you can do, I mean, it's the, your improvement is still,
would be based on human contribution.
So it's all about, you know, human help that is needed to program the machines.
We still have very strong powerful machines now with this, that you can download just
engines on your, on your software.
But it's, you know, you don't need these massive power processing power.
So they're much stronger than the blue, much, much stronger.
And it's just a, they operate on your laptop.
Yeah.
So it's, but still, you know, it's, it's, it's a moment that, you know, it was undeniable
moment of inspiration.
And though I was on, on the losing side, so I was a victim, but, you know, why I could
feel not proud, but more comfortable these days, thinking that, you know, somehow by sacrificing
myself.
So I, I helped you in progress.
Tell us a little bit about how computer chess has evolved since then.
Oh, as I said, we have very strong chess engines these days, that are far superior to any
humans, for those who are familiar with, with chess, Commodore, Stockfish, Houdini, so just
those, those programs that are so much stronger than the current world champion, Magnus Carlson,
that the gap between them is about the same as between Magnus Carlson and the decent player
from open international tournaments.
And these are also, these are all still type A types of, you know, type A machines, they
are just, you know, they're being equipped with more knowledge.
So it's, it's the, it's the software, so it's sophisticated day.
The blue could be up to two, up to 200 million positions per second.
These machines would be, I would say, make six, seven, eight million positions per second,
but it's more than enough because they, they search mechanisms far more sophisticated.
So they just, you know, and they do it better, but it's, but it's still, it's the, it's,
it's, you call it data crunching, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Now people said that it's the, with machines being so strong, chess would face extinction.
To the contrary, chess is more popular today because it's interesting paradox.
On one side, you have machines that could be any humans, but on the other side, it took
away the curtain of mystery from the game of chess because when I played an hydraulic
carpal for the World Championship matches, even the grandmaster, grandmasters that were
analyzing games in the press center and making commentaries on television, they were very
shy of criticizing our game.
Even if we made mistakes, yes, but it's world champion and the challenger.
How can you say something negative?
You're not sure.
Today, every amateur equipped with a computer could see that Magnus calls him at a blender
because machine is screaming.
So now, on one side is annoying because I mean, following these games on the internet and
seeing how this bunch of amateurs are just laughing at Magnus Carlson makes me feel angry.
But on the other side, don't read the comments.
But on the other side, he brings poor people in because they can understand it.
Makes it more accessible.
Plus they can, you know, they can look at the games, they can analyze the games, they
can make preparation.
So I think machines played a positive role overall when you look at this overall contribution
by making chess more attractive to millions and millions and millions of fans that before
fell inferior to the top players, they couldn't be part of this process.
So they were passive watchers.
Now they feel they are part of this whole process.
And we thought that in chess, you know, we would see this gradual development with this
type A machines.
And the conventional wisdom was that stronger machines are dollar the game is because machines
will see the combinations when advance and there will be less tactics and it's more
position maneuvering and it's games will be not as exciting.
Typically the games played between strongest type A engines.
They are, I would say, 70, 75, 80 moves long while the human game is about 80 moves.
So you can see it's more precise but less exciting.
Now everything has changed with the appearance of alpha zero.
That's the, that's a very new type of machine.
By the way, I call it here type C and ironically, as we can say that type B machines contrary
to the expectations of founding fathers never succeeded in chess.
Actually they just, you know, we didn't want to have type B machines.
So it's this because the idea of emulating human thinking but still operating with human
knowledge didn't work out.
We don't even really know what it means.
Exactly.
But it's the, I think it's again, it's important psychological contradiction in our mind.
So we want machines to create a miracle but also want to understand how is the miracle
we can create.
I always say that the aeroplanes flying faster than any bird without flapping their wings.
Deep blue, one, you know, one of the match against world champion out before me without
thinking me because it's just the machines do it in a different way.
Now with deep blue, you could spend if you're patient.
You could spend a year or so looking at all the logs, you know, going deep, deep down
to find out exactly why certain decisions was made.
With alpha zero, I don't think even Demis Hassab is the founder of the program from
Google's Deep Mind.
I don't think even he can tell you why version five played better words than version
six.
But the importance of alpha zero that is actually demonstrated that is chess program or
go program or any program designed on the alpha zero platform will do better without any
human data.
All it needs is rules like a framework to work with to work with and it does the rest.
I think it's it was quite sensational because while I thought that in golf, for instance,
the human knowledge was quite poor because go is so complicated, it is a complex strategic
game.
And you could say that the the best go players today, they would be at the level of chess
play a couple of hundred years ago, because no offense meant it's just the way they play
because there's so many options, they just they have to go through this very slowly
recognizing the patterns.
And if you show chess games to a great player of the past of early 19th century, he will
be shocked to see some of the moves today.
But what's happened with alpha zero chess that by playing 60 million games against itself,
right.
Before ours, of course, with all massive Google power behind it, it created its own scale
of evaluation, which is quite sensational because we didn't see before machines that were
able to generate their own knowledge.
And the way alpha zero played was also contrary to our expectations.
It played very aggressive dynamic chess, sacrificing material and looking for patterns that
even for me was, even for me, it was quite revealing because I mean, I could sense that,
but just to see machine that could have the same kind of sense, that was stunning.
So if you had some opportunity to analyze its approach to this game, so what I found
out is that is alpha zero again, out of statistics, accumulated and derived out of the 60 million
games, figured out certain patterns and connections between material, time and quality, those things
are totally incompatible for computer.
But just again, statistically, you know, it actually reached a point where it could see
the connection.
So that's why sacrificing material, playing with a pawn down or even a piece down, was
not a big challenge for alpha zero because somehow, from the 60 million games database,
it had a good compensation.
When alpha zero played one of the strongest type A machines, chess engines, stock fish,
we could see that it was always one or two moves ahead in getting correct evaluation.
Now, why it's interesting because stock fish in this match that we didn't have the
most powerful hardware that it could show, that it could give stock fish sort of the best
opportunity to realize its potential, still it was powerful enough and it made roughly
six million positions per second, alpha zero made about 60,000, so it's much more precise
in what it shows to evaluate exactly, so I'm quite happy to say that chess still offers
unique opportunity for us to continue these experiments.
So it's about the way machine generates some data, how flexible machine is to change
the data under the pressure of sort of of a new formation that is being introduced.
And so what will be the human's role in working with these machines because people could
get really panicked.
And I'm to the contrary, I'm very optimistic because I could see an opportunity for us
to share our knowledge and just to be what I call the shepherds of guiding these AI flocks.
Did you find when evaluating these alpha zero games that it exhibited an entirely new style
of play or did you recognize a human element in it or a reaction to the human element?
It's a little bit of a style.
Actually, it played more like Yarrick as part of the Anatolian Carpool.
Again, contrary to the conventional wisdom that believes stronger machines will play more
defensive chess.
But what was new there is that it could actually move on sacrificing material without seeing
immediate consequences because you could look at other engines that have that very powerful
calculation function.
And neither stock fish nor other problems didn't see the immediate danger coming out of
the sacrifice.
So which means that alpha zero based its sacrifice, not on immediate benefits, but on the projects
of benefits.
Chess has been very well analyzed, tons of books written about openings and things like
that.
I'm curious if in looking at the alpha zero play, did you find a new opening or a new transition
or was there anything like that?
What's not about new opening is that the one I could learn from the games I saw and
two hours I spent with alpha zero in the lab is that it has created its own skill of
evaluation, which is probably slightly different from the traditional approach.
Is it more sophisticated, probably, maybe not, but what is very important at the machine
came up with its own data.
It has created knowledge that proved that what we believed was almost fit that complete
actually had many flaws.
And I think it tells us that no human knowledge considered dogma.
I think I will help us to fight out traditional ideas that the human experience that had been
accumulated over centuries, it cannot be touched.
This is the foundation that we have to build our constructions of our theories.
Anything can be challenged.
It doesn't mean that everything will be refuted, but alpha zero opens a new era of us actually
revisiting many things that just consider to be sacrosanth.
Circling back to this topic of humans and machines, you've talked about in your book, you've
recognized the historical role of this narrative, the human versus machine narrative, and you
refute that.
It's one that is easy to sell.
Humans versus machine, we against them are humanity versus aliens.
And that's one of the reasons why I'm so skeptical, actually critical about AI being
presented as artificial intelligence, because artificial sounds alien, sounds frightening.
It's like a challenge to us.
It's something that will potentially threaten our existence because it's a different form
of cognition.
I believe that augmented is more precise because it reflects the idea of cooperation and
it sounds friendly.
And it's very important for us at this point is actually to walk away from these dystopian
views.
It's determinators, the metrics.
I always remind people that capacity for evil is still exclusively human.
And the greatest danger in the future, the foreseeable future, is not a sky net.
But bad guys, dictators and terrorists that could have hands on the new technology and
they will use it to undermine the very foundation of the free world, where these technologies
have been created.
And so in the context of chess, you've been working on some projects to exhibit the power,
if you will, of humans and machines working together, how, or where are those efforts
now and how, how do you assess them?
I think the future of the human plus machine cooperation in chess will be probably in the
field of humans plus type A machines facing type C machines.
So just to recognize, so to test the flexibility of these new machines.
And also, we could have the continuation of what is called now freestyle chess, humans
plus machines.
It could be one human plus, few computers or several humans with several computers.
It's a different form of human machine cooperation with an idea to provide the best quality.
And I think there's still many, many interesting experiments to be carried, because as I said,
every problem requires unique combination of humans plus machines.
And what we learn from chess and what I think will be also the case in, let's say, in
medicine, in medical diagnosis, you don't need top expert to work with the best machines.
Moreover, sometimes having the best expert in the industry could become the productive,
because machines already superior in many instances.
And you just have to recognize that you are there to form a partnership, but to be a partner
that belongs to few, last few decimal places.
There's nothing wrong about it, because we can start looking at our exclusively human
qualities.
I think that AI, well, intelligent machines will make us smarter, considering the form
of promotion, because we can start thinking about questions.
We can start thinking about concepts.
We can strategize.
There's still so many things that we do and machines cannot do it yet, or just definitely
will not do it in foreseeable future.
And I want people to stop fretting, stop talking about a GI that will dominate the world
and will make us relevant.
And let's look at the current problems and let's see how we can turn this most powerful
tools that have been created to make our lives better.
That's what we always did with new breakthrough technologies in the past.
Well, Gary, thank you so much for taking the time to chat with me.
Thanks for inviting me.
Awesome.
And it's definitely to be continued, to be continued, because Alpha Zero is the beginning
of a new era.
And I'm sure that every six months we'll keep bringing us more news.
And again, I want people to remember the future of self-fulfilling prophecy.
And it's for us to be optimistic and just to look for opportunities, not ignoring the
problems, but not to concentrate too much on the negative side.
Right.
Thank you.
All right, everyone, that's our show for today.
For more information on Gary or any of the topics covered in this episode, head on over
to twimlai.com slash talk slash 140.
Thanks again to figure eight for their sponsorship of this episode.
To follow along with the train AI series, visit twimlai.com slash train AI 2018.
And last but not least, check out our anniversary festivities and share your story at twimlai.com
slash 2AV.
Thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
