Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
This week we present a series of shows recorded at the Pego World Conference in Las Vegas.
The theme of the conference was automation, particularly in service of creating enhanced
customer experiences.
In this episode I'm joined by Jim Salah, Senior Director of Process and Decision Automation
at Scotiabank.
Jim is tasked with helping the bank transition from a world where customer interactions are
based on historical analysis to one where they're based on real-time decisioning and automation.
In our conversation we discuss what's required to deliver real-time decisioning starting from
the ground up with the data platform.
In this vein we explore topics like data lakes, data warehouses, integration and more,
and the effort required to take advantage of these.
Before we jump into the interview, I'd like to send a huge thanks to our friends at Pego
Systems for hosting me at Pego World and sponsoring this series.
One of the great announcements coming out of the conference was Pego Systems' new
self-optimizing AI-powered marketing capabilities.
This is a really interesting offering designed to reduce marketers dependence on traditional
segment-based campaigns and transition them towards real-time one-to-one customer engagement.
These new capabilities will be available as part of their new Pego Infinity platform,
which was also announced at the event.
For more info on Pego Infinity, head to Pego.com-slash-infinity.
Alright, let's do it.
Alright everyone, I am here at Pego World in Las Vegas and I have the pleasure of being
seated with Jim Salah. Jim is the Senior Director of Process and Decision Automation at Scotiabank.
Jim, welcome to this week in Machine Learning and AI.
Thank you very much.
Happy to be here.
Fantastic.
Why don't we get started by having you tell us a little bit about your background?
I understand you've got a long history in this space of decision automation.
Sure, decision-impressed automation.
Sure.
So I'm 30 years in IT, 31 years in IT, and I've been implementing a large-scale automation
systems pretty much that whole time.
So I've kind of watched the industry grow and change for many years.
Part of my background actually does involve some fairly heavy data modeling in the financial
services industry and balance sheet analytics and things like that, so mathematical models
and the whole world of AI has kind of just grown up around me.
And I've seen quite a bit of the change.
I've spent probably the last three years or so focused a little bit more on actual real
time decisioning, as part of my practice of process and decision automation.
And the reason these two are together is that the bank is very focused not just on better
analytics and better decisions, but on actionable decisions and actually being able to do something
with those.
So we've really kind of strategically brought those things together with the intent of making
better decisions and offering better advice and being able to actually follow through with
the customer.
Okay, awesome.
And so for folks that aren't familiar with Scotiabank, tell us about it's a bank, but tell
us about Scotiabank and maybe a little bit of Scotiabank journey with process and decision
automation.
Sure.
Okay.
As a Canadian bank, we're based in Toronto, we're in over 50 countries throughout the
world.
We're very heavily invested in Latin and Central America and South America as well obviously
as Canada.
And really our businesses on a major growth curve in the Americas in general, not just
Canada.
We've been, you know, like many banks traditionally, we've been doing kind of segment oriented historical
analytics and, you know, we use those analytics primarily to make offers to our clients.
Over the last few years, we started the curve of automation of work and automation of
processes and kind of six sigma approach to things.
And along with that, we through our work with Pega, we actually started using their real
time decision, which is integrated with their process engine.
And so what we're finding is along with, you know, better real time decisions, and I'll
talk about that in a second, but along with better real time decisions, we actually are
able to action things and, you know, drive work in our back end system.
So as an example, you know, when an offer is taken up, we can actually automate the process
of onboarding that product or that client or whatever it is that came out of the offer.
We have, you know, we've started to move from offers that are, as I said, based on kind
of batch data and historical data and, you know, the data on our existing systems.
And we've started to augment them with more real time data.
So streaming data from various, you know, social media and websites and things like that.
And what it's giving us is the ability to make a more fulsome decision on behalf of the
client.
So, you know, the example I give people is traditionally, by the time an offer was actually
presented to a client, it may be based on data that is weeks to even over a month old.
The offer itself could be weeks old because the cycle time to create those offers was,
you know, long.
And with the new tools that are coming out in the market, we've got the ability to be
much more agile. They bring the data model and the decision strategies together in one
place and make it much simpler to integrate your data and work with your strategies.
And so what we're now finding is that incorporating real time data and the faster turnaround
time to be able to, you know, change offers, create offers, change other decisions is
giving us the ability to, you know, be a more active participant in the conversation
with the client and bring them more relevant offers.
Okay, great. I'm really glad to hear you brooch the issue of data because that's something
I've been wondering about over the course of the past couple of days here at the conference.
There are a lot of interesting things happening in terms of, you know, the real time offers
and things like that that have been discussed in the keynotes. And one of the questions
running along in the back of my mind is, you know, what's really required to make this
happen and what are all the integration points and, you know, what kind of data does the
customer have to have access to and does, you know, in what ways it strikes me that
at least to some degree putting these kinds of processes in place would help them enhance
their data.
Absolutely. And let's just dive into your experiences around the data side of this.
Sure.
So, you know, as I said, a lot of this is driven by the quality of the data that you have
about your customers and traditionally, you know, large institutions have kind of taken
a data mining data warehouse approach to and using segmentation to look at their clients.
And that's great. You get a certain amount of information. You know your client from
patterns. They're like this. They're, you know, they're like other people that we've
worked with. What we're trying to do now is to get more down to an individual and a
behavioral understanding of our clients. So we're, you know, and this is a multi-year
journey. You don't do this overnight, obviously.
And is that, if I can interrupt, is that fundamentally that individual view of the customer fundamentally
at odds with the notion of a data warehouse?
I would say that you're not going to achieve it with a data warehouse. Data warehouses
are historical data by nature. And what we're trying to do, we certainly still embrace
the data that we have historically about our clients and the data that we, you know, accumulate
in doing our day-to-day business with our clients. That's still very important. And, you
know, without that, you can't make good decisions. However, beyond that, we're now trying to
reach out into, you know, partner networks, understanding, you know, not just things like
account balances, you know, basic demographics, but transaction patterns, deposit patterns,
payment patterns. And then beyond that, you know, social media, things that they're doing
online. An example might be, you know, you want to make an offer to a client for a credit
card. That's great.
Wouldn't it be interesting to know that your client travels a lot, or is, in fact, traveling
as, in fact, planning a major travel event right now? If you see them online doing foreign
currency rate checks or online looking for airline tickets, well, that might change your
offer from, you know, an affinity points to something related with travel benefits, things
like that will happen, okay?
Actually, that example resonates with me quite strongly because I do travel a lot. And
when I see, you know, I get the credit card offers like everyone else does. And I, when
I see one that is not, has no kind of points associated with it or something like, what
are they thinking? Why would you, why would I even do this exactly?
So if on top of that, you know that your, your bank understands a little bit about your
life and is making offers that are more relevant to you, then, you know, your affinity to the
bank grows. So, you know, one of the speakers at the conference yesterday was talking about,
you know, customer satisfaction. We've got to move beyond customer satisfaction because
everyone is satisfying customers. And, you know, a satisfied customer does not necessarily
mean a customer that's going to stay with you. You've got to kind of go beyond that. And,
you know, especially the, the changing demographics of our customer base, people expect us to
know more about them. It's, it's not even a question of, you know, telling us about themselves.
They expect you to just know these things. And so, and it goes beyond offers, in fact.
So if you think about it, being able to give your customer a nudge because you see that
they're getting into a situation where they may have a check bounce, you, you're seeing
the patterns of deposits and expenditures, maybe even the patterns of things that are coming
in on credit cards. And you know, you know, you've got a payment coming do. You really need
to think about making that payment to avoid a late charge. Those kinds of nudges are considered
value add by clients. So, being able to say things like that actually makes you more of a,
a source of financial advice, more of a partner than just a bank selling them products. So,
that's kind of the next wave of what we're hoping to get into is more value add or advice based
interactions with our clients. And that kind of goes hand in glove with the automation of work
because if you think about it, where, where the tendency is to automate the repetitive tasks
that we do for our clients. And what that does is it frees our people up to be better financial
advisors. If you add the intelligence behind that to, you know, make more pertinent offers,
give nudges to your customers, then it changes the transaction between the bank and the customer
from one of just order taking and fulfilling requests to one of actually offering advice and
engaging the client. That's the direction we're trying to go with analytics and decisioning.
And so, you mentioned pulling in different types of data, transactional, historical transactional
data, social streaming real-time. When I hear this type of data mix, I start to think of data
like, does that play into it at all for you? It does. You know, we don't necessarily use the
term data lake for, but for sure there is the idea of, you know, gathering data. And in fact,
by the way, the data that we gather includes the customer journeys that we're doing through the
process automation of the decisions and the, you know, interaction history that we have with
the client through making offers and giving nudges. So, all of the data that we're getting from
all these different sources, including the data that we transact with the customer on a
day-to-day basis is being captured and being in some ways curated for different uses and
different purposes. And, you know, one of the things that we're curating for is making better
decisions and offering our clients better services and products. So, yes, the concept of a data lake
definitely plays a key role in this. And in some ways, it's at the base of the pyramid of
value-add decision. Because I like to say that, you know, it all starts with data from your own
backend systems and real-time data and all these things. And it goes up to, you know, kind of
understanding insights and intents about your client, knowing, you know, what the most probable
next interaction is going to be with your client. Or having the insights to say, I understand where
they are in their life or in their financial situation and I can therefore make better offers to
them or interact with them more intelligently. So, it goes from data to intents and insights
up to decisions and then up to offers and actions. So, the top of the pyramid is actually doing
something for your client. I got to say that when I'm here and I hear your vent you and, you know,
other banks have presented, telcos have presented. You've all described this world that sounds,
you know, awesome. Like the companies that I'm dealing with know what I'm going to need
before I express the need or even, you know, as I'm contacting them. I don't feel like any of
the companies I do business with actually do that. Is it, you know, just where we are in kind
of the maturity cycle? Is it that I'm just working with? I have the wrong banks and telcos and,
you know, all of that. Is it that this stuff is being, is it currently deployed in like small
numbers today? That's a very good question. So, for sure we're on a journey. Some of the presenters
today we're talking about having been working on these things for 10 years. Again, this is not
something you, you can create the roadmap. You can have the concepts. It actually takes a great
deal of work by many different groups around the bank to make these things happen. So, as I said,
we're, we're right now in a period where, you know, there's a lot of creation of new technologies.
These things are coming up all the time. You've got things like, you know, transcription,
voice transcription, natural language processing, sentiment analysis. You've got the tools are
coming available now. At the moment, many of these tools are still kind of here and there. You've
got to figure out how to work with them, figure out how to integrate them into your ecosystem
and into your architecture. So, some of it is just that because of the level of maturity of these
tools, it takes a lot of work and a lot of, you know, experimentation to use these technologies.
Now, what I think is going to happen is the creative process will continue. There will begin to
be consolidation and you'll start to see platforms and actually Pega is one of those platforms that
saying, we've got the core decision and capability and we've got the core of being able to do work.
They're integrating right now with all of these other technologies and it takes work and it takes
time and getting your data layer really nailed down takes time and work and a lot of analysis.
There's data scientists and data engineers working flat out on that at our bank.
And then what's going to start to happen is we've got pockets of success areas where we're doing
this and we're experimenting in other areas. So, you know, we're talking about how to do things
in customer service, how to do things in the world of collections or fraud. We're not yet at a
point where we're just doing it full out, but we are definitely focusing on it and moving in that
direction. So, you mentioned some of your data science teams and data engineering teams.
What are they focused on now to try to help the enterprise get to this broader vision of
real-time decision automation? Right. What are their big challenges? I think
master data management is definitely big challenge like knowing that you've got the right copy
of every field of data you have on your customers. You know, as I said, data lineage or data
provenance, making sure that you understand where data came from, where the roots of it are,
so that you use it correctly. These are some of the industry wide challenges that I think people
are going through. And then, quite frankly, learning the new technologies that allow us to work with
data in more agile and more real-time ways. You're not going to do this with classic relational
databases. There are new technologies that are coming up and the banks adopting them. Well,
industry is adopting those. So, I think the discipline of data engineering and data sciences
is, again, evolving and growing, but it's definitely reaching a level of maturity where there
are experts in the field. And there is real thought leadership. It's not, you know, guys like me
going in and saying, I'm going to invent data engineering. It's there. It's a university discipline
and we get to benefit from that now. For sure, there's a road map ahead of us to really nail down
our data challenges. What are some of the technologies that are kind of on your radar at that data
layer for helping you get to? Yeah. So, I mean, all the classic ones, you know, the Hadoop type
data tools. Well, let's put it this way. We're looking at all sorts of different technologies
that probably don't want to talk about the ones we're specifically looking at. But a lot of the
you know, the cloud-based tools and the big data tools where we're investigating many of those
and trying to choose the right ones for our mission. You mentioned cloud. There's been historically
hesitation on the part of large enterprises, particularly banks and others to embrace cloud.
I'm curious what if you can comment on Scotia's particular take on on cloud.
Yeah. Well, we're definitely focused on it. I think all the big banks are focused on cloud.
It's perceived with caution. There's no question about that. You know, the big challenge that I think
all corporations are having right now, not just banks, is protecting our customers data. So,
obviously, that's always going to be primary in our mind. So, the way we're, you know, approaching
the cloud is cloud in general is an untrusted zone by nature, the native cloud. And so, we have to
build the capabilities and the security mechanisms that will allow us to gradually move in that
direction. It's a very big question for banks and large corporations. And, you know, above all,
banks are going to move very cautiously in that direction. So, some of the capabilities of
the cloud we are exploiting, but only in very specific ways to always put first our customers
protection. Sure, sure. And if you looked at some of the data science, machine learning AI,
offerings that the cloud vendors are coming online with in particular. We have. And for sure,
you know, some of these capabilities, again, we're seeing them here at Pegaworld.
You know, machine learning is a big area. It's a big push. I would say, you know, we're
working with it. We're experimenting with it. And again, having pockets of success with it,
but in general, for us right now, we're starting at the bottom of the pyramid and making sure
we have, you know, our data layer just right and then understand how to draw the insights and
intents out of that. Machine learning comes a little bit later down the road when you know you've
got your decision models working the way you want them. And then you just, you know, again,
you've got to have that transparency of as I'm learning, I need to be able to track where this
thing is going because you've always got compliance and audit issues to be able to say why was
any particular decision made. So, machine learning is another area where we're going to proceed
with great caution. And we're going to, you know, understand it very well before we start making
the making choices about how to use it. Maybe going back to the underlying data discussion.
One of the things that you mentioned that was interesting was you, you've got this historical
data, you've got the social data again. And then you've got this notion of the customer journey.
And I'm wondering, does that notion of the customer journey, does it exist some place as a thing?
And like what is its native form and where does it live? Is it, you know, is it Justin Pegas? Is it,
you know, something that you store in some database or is it, you know, created on the fly every time
from all these different pieces and parts? That's a great question. I think it's a virtual concept
for sure. We don't have a customer journey database and we don't have a customer journey tool.
It's really something that we work on with the business. So the business obviously is the one
who draws the customer journeys and understands them and we support them in that analysis.
But what I would say is it's kind of built into our decision capabilities. It's built into our
processes and it's, it's embodied in all of our systems. As, you know, every time we're building
new systems, those systems represent points on the customer journey. And so that data that comes
out of those systems goes back into our data layer and eventually you will have something that is
sort of a record of customer journeys, if you will. But the actual work that's done on behalf
of the customer, the decisions that are made on behalf of the customer, those are embedded in our
systems. So the concept is virtual, but there are very real artifacts of it all over the bank.
What are some of the, what are some of the areas that are kind of most exciting for you as you both
here at the conference, you kind of see what is happening with, you know, one of your key vendors
in this space as well as just in the broader industry, you know, as machine learning AI and other
things are evolving. Well, so I'm particularly interested in this concept of customer centricity.
And it's a big theme in many of the vendors and many of the companies that are working with
customer data. And for me, it's, it's going to be a real challenge to kind of step out of the
comfort zone of being a product oriented or, you know, historically companies sell products and
services. And of course, we'll always sell products and services. However, customer centricity
challenges us to start looking at differently at the way we bring our products and services to
the customers. So, you know, as I always say, banks are not, are not missions, but we are customer
focused organizations. And increasingly, your focus on the customers, what's going to be the
deciding factor in whether customers stay with you or not? Customers are becoming much more
demanding over time as well as they should. There's more technology and more capabilities at their
disposal. So, this idea that, you know, if you, if you look across an organization, you look across
all of their systems, you've got decisions being made on behalf of your customer all over the place.
And some of them are manual, you know, we're doing things in contact centers and branches and,
you know, we got financial advisors. And some of them are just embedded in codified in our
systems. And so, the idea that we want to start to have some kind of a holistic capability to
think about our customer and to bring things to our customers, that's going to be a huge challenge
for, for large corporations. And, you know, we're out there now increasingly competing with
non-banks. And non-banks have all sorts of, you know, new technologies at their disposal. So,
we've got to be able to compete with them on the same terms. So, being more customer-centric
will definitely play a role in that competitive challenge. A quick question on that, that point.
You mentioned that a big part of customer-centricity is having a holistic view of the customer.
Does that necessarily mean centralized or must it in fact remain decentralized and we just have to
deal with that? I think just the nature of our systems is that you'll never have a perfect customer
data record. That's not going to exist. But the idea. And even the specific thing that you were
talking about that triggered this question was around the different points that customer-related
decisions were being made. Like, is it, you know, as part of the vision of, you know, what you're
doing around decision automation to like have a single place where customer decisions are made?
Or I don't, again, I don't know forever, have a single place where customer decisions are made,
but to the extent that we can coordinate better the touch points with the customer,
I think that's going to be a really important advance in technology. So it's an interest for me.
I think that if you just put yourself in the customer's shoes for a minute and if you're
receiving multiple offers from the companies that you do business with and they may be
similar enough for your wondering why are you sending me two offers for credit cards? I don't
need two credit cards. Maybe I need one, right? Or, you know, you're offering me a credit card on this hand
and I'm talking to you about a mortgage on that hand. How are these two things going to affect
each other? So I think to the extent that we can centralize at least the direct customer touch points
and, you know, coordinate those and have an arbiter of, you know, customer focus. I think that
will be a big advance that's going to come in the next few years so that we really look like when
you're dealing with a bank, even if you're dealing with different people, you're dealing with one
bank. That's kind of the point. Okay, and you were getting to AI. Yeah, so I think for AI,
and, you know, I was sitting on a board with a few guys talking about this a little bit earlier,
we're mastering historical data now and we're making real-time decisions, as I said, instead of
segmented decisions and things like that. So I think we're getting to the point where we can make
the best decision, make the best interaction or have the best moment with the customer now. Okay,
we're getting better at the historical aspect of that and the real-time aspect. So we've overcome
that first challenge. But I think a next challenge is going to be having better models for understanding
how the decisions we're making with our customer right now will impact them and us in the future.
So again, the example I was giving today in discussion was if I'm offering a credit card,
how's that going to impact the propensity to get a mortgage later? Or, you know, if I know that
that customer may be in the market for a new car loan in another year, is that credit card going
to impact that new car loan? What's the right offer for them and for the bank to maximize that
overall equation? So I think, you know, there will be a point in time where we start looking forward
and saying, how do we model out? You know, what's the next step in the customer journey? Not just
the previous step and the current step. I think that's going to be a really interesting set of
questions that are brought up and discussed over the next couple of years. I've had a number of
conversations with folks and it always strikes me that, you know, just where we are in the process,
we're optimizing around, you know, very much low-hanging fruit like, you know, these kind of
incremental decisions or very simple metrics that don't necessarily tie to kind of the long-term,
big picture, total lifetime value of a customer relationship, for example. That's way out of
scope for what most people are thinking about today. That's true. If you think about the financial
markets, part of my history was doing modeling of financial instruments and I used to, you know,
model balance sheets for banks and things like that. You know, you're always looking forward
and you're looking at things like volatility curves and forward curves on underlying assets
and things like that. And then you're modeling and you're saying, well, you know, things can happen.
I'll model out into the future and I'll take the expected value of that or I'll, you know,
adjust it for probabilities, et cetera. And I bring it back and I say, what's the best decision
to make looking out into the future? Well, you know, we are financial actors in our customers'
lives. So at some point, you want to be able to take that same look forward and say, you know,
this decision or this offer or whatever it is, is going to have an impact on them and is going to
have expected value to us. So why don't we find a way to start looking forward a little bit and see
if, you know, it's the right decision now and the right decision for the future. And I think that's
going to be a whole big area of analysis and learning over the next several years.
So we talk quite a bit about the way the data tier needs to enable this and some of the things
you're doing. You're looking into the future. How do you see that data tier evolving to
meet all of these needs? Good question. I don't know. I think, as I said, I think this is going to
be something that evolves over time and the questions will be asked and answered by people who are
smarter than I am. But I do think that there will start getting into a little bit of, you know,
profiling of, you know, people and how they work and how they live and how they, you know,
use financial instruments and saying, you know, the average customer who takes financial instrument
like this when they're at this point in their life uses it in these ways. So you'll model around
that and probably have some kind of statistical modeling around it and then bring it back and say
it's our belief that this is the tool that will take you forward in this way. And again, I don't
know, but I do know that financial modeling is normally to go forward with an expected curve and then
apply, you know, kind of statistical methods around that expected curve and say, you know,
randomly things happen. How do we bring it back and understand the impact on today?
Awesome. Awesome. Well, Jim, thanks so much for taking the time to sit down with me.
Any final thoughts or any words of wisdom for enterprises and financial services or
in other industries that are just starting out down this journey?
I think if I was, and again, I've been in the field for a long time, I've been 30 years,
you know, in the IT world, I think what I would say is the game changer now is that the customer
is really in charge. The customer is sophisticated. They know that we've got all kinds of capabilities
and all kinds of data. They're expecting us to use it to mutual benefit of ours and theirs.
And so, you know, anything you're doing, if you're doing it on behalf of your customer,
it's, you know, it's the right path. You got to keep the customer in the center.
Awesome. Awesome. Well, thanks so much, Jim. Pleasure to meet you.
All right, everyone, that's our show for today. For more information on Jim or any of the topics
covered in this episode, head on over to twimmelai.com slash talk slash 152.
To follow along with the Pegaworld series, visit twimmelai.com slash pegaworld 2018.
For more information on Pegasystems or their new Pegat Infinity offering, visit pegat.com slash
infinity. As always, thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
