Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington. In this episode of our Pegaworld series recorded on
site at the conference in Las Vegas a few weeks ago, I'm joined by Michael Kemper, chief operating
officer, a global share registry and financial services provider, Link Market Services.
In this interview, Michael and I dig into Link's use of workforce intelligence software
to allow it to track and analyze the performance of its workforce and business processes.
Michael and I discuss some of the initial challenges associated with implementing this
type of system, including skepticism among employees, and how it ultimately sets the stage
for Link's broader use of machine learning AI and so-called robotic process automation
to increase workforce productivity. Thanks to Pegasystems for sponsoring this show and
our Pegaworld series. Amidst the discussion of automation and enhanced customer experience
is that Pegaworld, the company announced several new AI-powered capabilities as part
of its Pegat Infinity Process Automation Platform. For more information on Pegat Infinity,
head over to pegga.com slash infinity. And now on to the show.
All right, everyone. I am here at Pegaworld and I've got the pleasure of being seated
with Michael Kemper. Michael is the chief operating officer of Link Market Services.
Michael, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here.
Why don't we get started by having you tell us a little bit about your background and
it sounds like you've been doing some work with machine learning and AI at Link. How
did you kind of come into working with those technologies?
Yeah, thank you for that. It's a great opportunity to really explain how we've been taking
AI and we've taken the work with Pegat to very different levels than we've ever had
in the past. So it's probably worth starting with what our industry and what our business
does. So we work with corporates to basically do some outsourcing for them. So we look
after the share registration, employee share plans, some investor relations. So we're
the guys when there's an annual general meeting, where the people who send you the documentation
and allow you to vote at a meeting, pay dividends, if there's a corporate action, those kind
of things. On the employee share side, if there's a launch of an employee share plan, we'll
manage all of that. That industry is a pretty mature industry. It's been around for hundreds
of years and inevitably because of that, it's very product focused, very paper focused,
very transactional focused. And from time to time, it's very seasonal focused as well. So
an AGM only comes around once a year and they tend to be within the same three month period.
So you can see there are huge spikes in volumes. An annual general meeting. Okay. So when
a PLC once a year engages with their shareholders to say, this is what we want to do for the following
year and that might be reappointing the directors, might be reappointing auditors, might be
taking some strategic decisions around that. So and corporate actions, things like take
over as mergers and acquisitions and those kind of things we do as well. So we realised
as part of this that our industry was relatively manual, relatively paper based with a large number
of handoffs between different parties as we go on. And we knew that a lot of that created
inefficiency, probably some risk within the business and certainly not the service you
would want to provide to customers and their stakeholders. And one of the things that's
a little bit unique about our businesses are clients are the PLCs, so public limited
companies and the corporates, whereas the stakeholders are the shareholders or in the employees.
So whilst we only have, you know, to stay over a thousand clients, we have millions upon
millions of stakeholders who are contacting us to say, I've changed my address. You didn't
pay me a dividend. Oh, yes, you did. Can I have a replacement? All of those kind of things.
So we spent, you know, a bit of time saying, how do we want to work in the industry as we
go forward? And we looked at other industries and how they behaved. What we didn't know
was effectively where to start on that journey. We could have taken the choice that a lot
of organisations, I think, do, which was throw a lot of money at innovation and hope something
sticks and hope that that will produce some good benefit. Instead, we decided to really
go down almost to Donald Rumsfeld. Let's find out the unknown unknowns or the known unknowns.
And to do that, we worked with Pega to implement something called workforce intelligence. Now
that's a product that sits on everyone's PC and basically takes a screen grab of what
people are doing on a minute by minute, hour by hour, day by day process and allows a very
clear analysis of what an individual, what a team, what a department are doing. And that
gave us a huge insight into our current processes, our current ways of working and indeed where
the risks were behind that. Immediately we put that in, we saw a real change in behaviours.
So one of the most important parts of that AI journey was the change in employee behaviour.
Initially, they felt that this could be and maybe was a big brother type scenario where
people were looking at their day to day work, whether that would impact them as individuals,
whether that was a management tool to effectively beat them with a stick. In reality, that was
never the intention. The intention was to work with the guys and say, we can see from
this AI and we can see from the reports that it's generating where inefficiencies are,
where an employee is toggling between two different systems to get the right service
for a client or their stakeholder, where we could see there was suddenly a gap in processing
because they had to go off and do a, you know, bespoke activity before they could carry
on with the end-to-end journey of, of the product that we were trying to put in place at
that point. So we created this environment where teams, managers and everyone involved
in the process had a real window into the operating process and understanding of what was
going right and probably more importantly, what was going wrong.
I've got to imagine that the concerns that the team members might have initially had
were really only shifted once you started to actually deliver on that information, take
action on the things you learned via this reporting. What was the, and presumably, you
know, built some stuff to do some things in order to, you know, for example, smooth out
a process. What was the timeline, you know, from when you started getting access to
this information and when you're able to actually implement change in the organization?
That's exactly right. There was a lot of concern when we first put it in place, not only
from the administrators and the operatives, but also the managers themselves, which is
sometimes people are surprised that I say that. So let me take a couple of examples of
that and then I can answer your question in full. So when we first started out on the
journey, we spent a lot of time talking to the teams, training with the teams to explain
what the data would be used for and how we would go down that particular journey. And effectively,
we had a dual strategy, a top-down approach of these are the kind of things we want to
change to make it happen and a bottom-up approach that was going to be led by the employees
and their managers. We had effectively four types of people. Those who got it straight
away and said, this is great, you know, really embrace the possibility to look at that data
and challenge themselves. Those who kind of got the idea, but weren't convinced yet and
those who were just, this is the worst thing in the world. You could happen to me. This
is, you know, threaten my job. The fourth, which is the surprising one, was the managers.
A lot of managers were saying, why are you putting in something that I already know? Why
are you telling me how to do my job? And that was the fear factor behind that. But to answer
your question, it was within the first month that we saw the change. With the good teams,
and there were different journeys for different teams in different departments, we saw that
very quickly on their day-to-day hurdles, because every team has a huddle in the morning
around a whiteboard to see what's going to be ahead and what's going on. The good teams
were using that data from day one to try and understand why there were differences in
approach between team members, why people were doing things in a different way, why team
member A was getting really good productivity, whereas another team member was not getting
productivity. And they didn't see it as a competition or a threat to each other. They
saw it as a way to really bolster the customer service and really improve quality. So those
teams within the first month were suddenly seeing change.
With the managers in those teams as well, we saw that very quickly, they realised that
the age-old struggle of our managers managing or our managers superdoers was seen through
this data very quickly. And they could understand that actually, they weren't doing their job
in the way that we wanted their roles and responsibilities to be, and they were becoming
superdoers. So very quickly, they were able to work with their teams and say, hold on,
I shouldn't be doing this. Let me pass this down to the right people, which, funny enough,
made everyone happy. The operatives were saying, finally, I'm getting to do my job to its
full extent, the managers were able to manage to do quality assurance and those kind of
things to go from there. But to answer your question, not every team reached that conclusion
within the first month, we did, as you rightly surmised, have to put in some changes around
that. And those changes were both bottom-up and top-down. So one example of the bottom-up
is we found in one particular team, there were three or four ways of working for a particular
function. So rather than us come in and say, we will change that for you, we actually
implemented something called a power hour, which is a nice consultancy term for, we took
the team away from their desk for an hour, said, here's the problem, there's four different
journeys on this and we can show you the data. Please come back in an hour and tell us
how you want to do this going forward. They went away, went around a whiteboard, came
back, felt very empowered, and said, this is how we want to manage this process going
forward. The following day, you already saw the data change. It was incredible in that
type of journey. Other types of things did require change from us. So we've implemented
something called a process defect log, which is from the data from the WFI, we're able
to see where a process is inefficient. And just like you would have a code defect log,
we're now monitoring those and saying, we will help you change those processes. Some
can be very quick. It's some very simple feeds of data to different systems. Some take
rather longer. And we've been using that to then implement the Pegasystem more universally
to say, we now know what processes are fantastic. We know which ones are okay, and we know
which ones need some attention because they're pretty broken. And the business case and
the benefits from looking at those individual processes has allowed us to do that top-down
approach and put pegger in place in a way that I think if you'd been scattergun, you
wouldn't have got the same benefits that this is clearly shown as where to look and where
to do the right work. This workforce intelligence product, WFI, is kind of capturing user screen
activity. And then is it automatically categorizing that or providing some higher level analytics
on top of that, or does that go back to some team or staff that you have that is kind
of manually reviewing that and trying to determine the patterns of use and these things that
you turn into power hours and things like that? A bit of both. Inevitably in these kind
of things. So the one thing it does very well is turn us an awful lot of data. But before
that happens. Such as. Let me explain. So before that happens, we had to categorize
what we felt was productive versus what was non-productive. So we have our own internal
operating systems as everyone does, but we also use the ubiquitous in Microsoft tools
and everything else. Some people would see, say, email Microsoft Outlook as a productive
tool. Some people don't. So when you're sending it up for the first time, there is a choice
for you as a company to say, I believe these products are productive. These systems
are productive. These ones are non-productive. And obviously you then categorize non-work
as well, you know, around those kind of things. Now you will never have 100% productivity
because you always want staff to be trained. You always want employees to have a break.
You always want those kind of things, but you set your own targets behind that. Once
you set it up, the system is fantastic at giving you an analysis to say within those productive
or non-productive areas, this is what you're seeing. So give you an example of a tool that
we said was productive, which was Microsoft Outlook. We hadn't realized, probably we realized
but maybe not to the extent of how it was being used within operations. So we knew it was
used. We used part of our end-to-end process, but in some departments and not all, it was
up to 25% of the day-to-day activity within a team. So WFI gave a very quick insight to
that. The no part of that is we've then got to take the choices of how we're going to change
that and how we look going forward. The other argument within that was WFI also shows us
when employees are going between two systems. So you can break down very quickly that say
you're going between the operational system, an Excel or Word or something like that or
different operational systems, and it shows you very quickly how often that's happening.
And by just seeing that and by seeing the frequency drive certain behaviors and certain
activity that you want to do as managers to change that behavior, because clearly every
time you go between a system, there's a few seconds lost or some frequency of marginal
risk or there's friction exactly behind that. And then of course, you can then compare
teams and employees and see the different behaviors that are going on, which is then
allow us to go back to the power hours and those kind of things to go from there.
It sounds like a really interesting tool for allowing you to understand, you know, there's
like theoretical understanding of your processes and then what's actually happening on the
ground. And it sounds like it enables that. When you think about this tool and the way
you've deployed it, what strikes you as kind of most AI or machine learning in, you know,
the tool or your use of it?
It's a great question. And I think it's really about dragging the assumptions that we had
from the past into touch. Now that's, you may argue that's not true AI, but it really
is providing an automated and a very real time feed and a window into our operating system.
So I mentioned before the comparison of the ways people are working. And that is a true
part of the AI. And the machine does make suggestions of where to look and saying we
have noticed across the different areas. There's some big differences between behaviors.
And within there is a tool that allows you to say, these are the areas you want to target
to them make change. And what it also does, I guess, and it gives you the leap of face
towards more AI going forward. So whilst it shows you the first step, you can then obviously
go into other parts of the Pega portfolio to say, actually, I'm now going to take machine
learning into that from this base tool. So it takes you to a certain point. It tip
toes into a bit of machine learning, but actually to do that properly, you then probably take
some other Pega tools to go from the status quo to the future state.
Okay. So there's a, it sounds like an underlying belief that you can't automate what you can't
really understand. So this will help you understand, again, your processes on the ground and
providing on ramp to further automation. That's right. And I think a lot of us will be
very familiar with people talking blockchain, workflow, AI, data, and those are solutions.
Now what we often hear is, you must invest in, put one of those names in there. You must
do this. You must do that. The question we should always ask ourselves is, why? What benefit
is that actually going to produce, whether that's a benefit to an employee, whether that's
a benefit to a customer, whatever that particular benefit is. What this tool has done is change
the power, if you like, from the people who are saying, you must, you must, you must,
to the actual people who are providing the service to say, what we need is, now what we need
is to solve an issue, create quality, remove risk, whatever that might be. And so it gives
you that step to then say, this is the requirement. Therefore, now go and implement whatever the
solution is. So it's really creating an automated requirements process for one to a bit of
expression that you never had in the past. And it does go back to exactly what you said.
You may have assumed you may have known some of this stuff, but you didn't really know.
And it's provided a very automated way to say, this is where your problem is. And this
is the benefit you will get if you fix it. Because that's the other part of the tool that
really is clear. If you can change your productivity from 50% to 60%, in terms of number of man hours
per year, that is enormous. And that rights its business case, by itself, without any
particular need for a challenge, because the facts are there. And then you pick the right
solution for that, whether that be workflow, whether that be a data hub, whether it be whatever
it might be to resolve that particular issue.
I imagine that you had some visibility into individual employee productivity going into
this process. You had to have a sense of, you know, these are your A players, they process
3x the volume of some other employees. But you've mentioned several times that it gives
you kind of visibility into that productivity. When you say that is it, again, kind of going
back to this understanding of like the why of the productivity or their aspects of productivity
that weren't readily apparent to you before you had this visibility?
Both. So the why is very important. And no one comes to well. Very few people come to
work wanting to do a bad job. Yeah, everyone wants to do the best of their ability. Sometimes
when people aren't as productive, people jump to conclusions that it's around the capabilities
of that person, it's their attitude, whatever it might be. The reality is sometimes it
might be we have set up that employee not to be as productive as the person sitting next
to them because we may not have given them the same tools to do the job, the same training,
the same experience and all of those kind of things to do that. So WFI allows you to see
what they are doing differently to that person who is very productive. Is that an experience
thing? Is that the way they are working? Do they need different training, different coaching,
whatever it might be? And by investing in that, we've seen a real uptick in exactly what
you were just mentioning the performance in certain individuals where historically you
might have said, I need to put them on a performance improvement plan for all the
wrong reasons. This now provides an improvement plan that is for all the right reasons and
we're seeing real benefits behind that. So that in itself is being super helpful. The
other side of that is it's provided employees that self-help. They can actually now turn
around because they see the data as much as anyone else and say, I am struggling because
of, please come and help me, please come and put in some change and those solutions
I was talking about a second ago to make sure that not only is there, process more efficient,
but we give better quality to clients, etc. So we've talked about this insight, this
visibility as kind of the on ramp to true machine learning and AI. How far are you along
that path?
Yes, it's a great question. So we only put WFI in January 2017, 18 months or so ago.
And we saw a huge change in the first six to 12 months and now inevitably it's beginning
to level out a bit. But what it did do, as you rightly surmised, is give us the opportunity
to say, and now what? Now let's do the top down stuff. And we've implemented one layer
of our next steps, but we're about to introduce the second, which is really the bit you're
probably going to be interested in. So the first layer we put in place was we re-looked
at the way clients contact us in terms of paper form. And we've used the Pega system
to digitalise our postroom and start putting a very, very automated process in place, which
isn't true machine learning at this point. What we're also doing, though, is the second
part of how our stakeholders contact with us. So paper is one, call centres are another.
And we're starting to implement the call centre module out of Pega to really understand
not only how our process is on the call centre, but to start doing machine learning. So we
are already starting to see, in our proof of concept, the pop-ups on the machine to
say, based on the first part of this conversation, we're expecting to see this kind of
behaviour. These are the answers you need to give, and really helping our opportunities
give a better service to the people who call up. And that's the bit that starts to excite
me. From there, if that works, we're going to start introducing the robotic webchat around
things where instead of just having a call centre, we move away from the traditional
webchat, which is actually just two people emailing each other and calling it a webchat,
to a machine learned way of doing things where very quickly we can see people's behaviours
putting the key words and start learning about how to either answer their questions or take
them to the right page on our web portal, talk them through, or machine talk them through
a process, so there's a lot more self-help. And we've seen in other industries that self-services
is the way people want to go, and to have machine learning do that is really important.
Yeah, I've spoken before at conferences about, we have a lot to learn from other industries,
and the travel industry is a great example. I'm old enough to remember the booklets of
tickets where you ripped them out as you went through the airport. They went through a process
of self-service where they put all the cost onto us as travelers, and we thank them for
it. I don't want to do that. I don't want to put cost onto someone else, but I do want
to provide a self-service process where machines pay apart to that, to those people who want
it. Our business is one where the demographics are, some people embrace that massively. That's
their expectations. Some of our other demographics probably aren't ready for that yet. So we always
have to provide the two options, whether that be machine learning contact or pick up the phone
and speak to someone, but in the background, we've got machine learning helping those people
give the right service. Yeah, that was a big theme in the key notes this morning, and across
the industry really is the continued consumerization of IT, if you will, meaning people's expectations
have risen to the level of what they experience every day via their phone and the consumer offerings,
and now as businesses, we're expected to deliver on that. Yeah, and we've seen technology jumps,
too. So we have all demographics who hold shares. The older generation often are cited as people
who they want paper, they want to do things in a certain way, but that's just not true. We see
that whilst they didn't like PCs and laptops, a lot of more on their tablets and their phones,
FaceTiming, the children, booking holidays and everything else. So one of the things in terms of
how we use machines is to link into the expectations of those different demographics,
and you are right, we're seeing people expect things to happen immediately. If they wait 30 seconds
for someone to pick up the phone, they get frustrated. Whereas a couple of years ago, no one cared.
Right. Equally, when they do a web chat to use their previous example, waiting for someone to
answer is no longer acceptable. You want an immediate answer. So depending on those stakeholders
and how they engage, machine learning and machine interaction is becoming more and more important
for those particular stakeholder groups and their expectations. So in continuing down this path
towards incorporating more machine learning, more AI into your operations, on the one hand,
you're absorbing a lot of technology and expertise via the vendor relationship,
but I'm curious as well, what kind of, what you've had to do internally in terms of skills,
competencies, development efforts, things like that in order to fully embrace this.
Yes. Yeah, it's a great question. I think you're right. You have different stakeholder groups
who move in a different way. So clients and their stakeholders we've talked about, and it's
a different journey. Internally, we have had to invest. So even though I talk about the top down
and the bottom up, ultimately that is a business transformation type role. And everyone is very busy,
and it's quite a difficult thing to get the operational teams who are the day-to-day running
in operations to think in a much more strategic leadership way to embrace those kind of things.
So we did invest in a central team, as Natalie, known as the business transformation
and service excellence team, you know, took us a long time to come up with that title, obviously.
And their job was not to sit centrally and create ideas, but to really get out into the
business teams, sit with the teams, understand what was going on, and start training them in
different ways of working. So we have a group of core routines that we've embedded into the
business, which, yeah, I'll link to the Six Sigma type of activities, but it's the daily
huddles to understand what's going on to utilize the MI moving forward. They challenged people
around what is your daily MI that you would normally have and look at, and is that really fit
for purpose? And how can we use machine learning to change that kind of behavior and move things forward?
So really simple example on the call center. You know, some of the MI we had in the past was
useful, but what it didn't tell me was how many times did you call? You know, what was your tone
when you called back the last time? You know, were you relaxed, frustrated, and machine learning can
pick up some of that stuff and give different data? Did you call in with you saying,
that's great, thank you, you've answered my question, or did it end up with you writing a complaint?
So bringing all of those pieces together and that central team really joining up the different
departments to do things in a consistent way and use that data and learning consistently
was an investment we had to make. Of course, some of those people are trained in change,
you know, the Six Sigma type activity, but what we didn't want to do, as I already said, is sit
those guys centrally and they sit in their ivory tower telling people what to do. Yeah,
once they come together and make sure things are consistent, they are embedded in the business
as part of the local teams. And did they, did you build that team with pre-existing experience
around machine learning technologies and what, you know, what's possible, what's not possible there,
or did you train them in those types of things? Combination. So some of the team were
brought in because they were experts in change. Okay. Yeah, around looking at operating models
and saying, how do we want to do things differently and go from there? Some of those people are experts
in technology. So fun enough, we do have, you know, one young lady who actually used to work for
PEGA. Yeah, here is a business process architect, but she understands that machine learning very,
very well. It does a lot of work in robotics and can bring that flavor. So like all teams,
you need diversity. Yeah, as I'm in America, I talk about American football and American football
team with only quarterbacks, doesn't work. Yeah. So it's the same with our transformation team. We
need, you know, people who can do analysis, people who can do end-to-end processing analysis,
people who can look at change, people who can implement that change, and of course, people who
understand robotics, AI, machine learning, et cetera. Yeah. Part of what I'm finding interesting
in this conversation is I talk to a lot of folks that are building data science teams and trying
to understand or think through how to structure those. Do we centralize them? Do we decentralize
them? And it strikes me as, it strikes me that a lot of companies are figuring the same things out
or have figured the same things out as regards to other change initiatives, whether it's digital
transformation or ERP before that or something else before that. It's not just technology,
technology, process, people, all these things together, and a balance of the folks that I've
talked to that are most sophisticated about bringing data science to an organization,
kind of start the conversation with, you know, it's about culture and it's about people and it's
about building and understanding of what's possible. And, you know, then there are different
approaches to, you know, which problems you buy it off and how you manage the portfolio,
but it strikes me that that, you know, that central piece around, you know, again,
people process culture, it's critical. You're exactly right. And I think if you start from the,
we want to introduce machine learning, you'll fail. Yeah. If you start from what am I trying to
achieve? And generally, you know, it's a small list. It's normally increased quality, reduced risk,
potentially increased margin if your company's, you know, pushing it that it's probably,
it should be, not always, employee well-being and making sure people have got the tools to do
their job and, you know, are happy in their jobs because that creates productivity and in itself
will increase margin. It's starting with those and understanding what you want to achieve.
You know, is it saying I want to get rid of incidents, complaints, high quality, whatever it might
be? And then that will lead you to exactly what you said, process culture, technology, technology
is one of the tools you will put that right with. There are others. Yeah. Some of that's around
the structure of your business. Yeah. Are you set up in a way that, you know, talk, say,
spans and layers within your business? Yeah. How many deep is your operational structure?
Is that efficient? Nothing to do with technology, but it does provide a very different structure
for employee well-being and how they feel and career paths and everything else associated with that.
Technology is just another element of that. And yeah, as I said, if you start with that,
I strongly believe you'll fail. You've got to have a real reason for putting that in place
and understanding what's going on. And it will constantly change. Yeah. I remember I'm
sadly old enough to remember the debate around whether you have Excel or Lotus 123.
Yeah. And today, I'm sorry, then that was a big question. Do we want to implement these things?
Now, you find a business that doesn't think Excel is part and parcel of what you have.
So some of the things we're talking about today in 10 years time, people will go,
why are you even asking that question? That is just the nature of our job. And as we see,
the change in employees, it's going to be really, really interesting because as you said,
technology is changing incredibly fast. Some employees are still questioning some of this stuff,
and are very wedded to certain ways of working. Graduates coming through are saying, why using email?
Yeah, I don't use email anymore. It's all messaging. So we are seeing this technology change not
just with our clients, but internally as well. And again, as I said already said, using that technology
to deliver the benefits and the things you want as part of your target operating model is key.
But you've got to understand why. What are you trying to achieve? What are your objectives?
Putting something in for putting it in just will not work.
And so, I want to ask how you articulate the vision for AI and machine learning
with the broader stakeholders in your organization. But I'm wondering if the vision for AI and
machine learning even includes talking about machine learning and AI at the level that you're
operating? It very much does. So as part of our target operating model, we regularly do stand-ups
to all of our employees, whether that's in small groups as teams or whether we do big town hall
type structures. And we tend to focus on a different subject each time. So it might be people in
culture, one quarter, it might be technology another. And as part of that technology, some of the
debates are actually great. Again, the different employees who have different feelings towards this
are really discussing and saying, how do we want to do this? How do we want to move it forward?
To the other end of people who are very scared of it still. There is still an expectation sometimes
that machine learning means a reduction in roles. It really doesn't. It actually means
creating those roles and giving the employees the chance to do their job properly
and really change the way they are performing to provide what we all want to do. Everyone wants to
provide the best quality to their clients. Machine learning allows you to do that and it's just
having those conversations and bringing people on. I can guarantee you that if I sat centrally
and just put an edict and says, we are now going to do X, there'd be uproar. Communication is key
on all of this stuff and I would be incredibly arrogant if I thought I knew everything about
machine learning sitting centrally. Actually, the guys who are doing the job day-to-day
every moment of the day are the ones who really benefit and really want it because they see the
true benefit immediately. So it is going back to that communication piece working together
in not just his employees, but as a board to say, where do we want to do this? So we started on
the operational side, but of course machine learning will come on the cell side as well,
come on our dealing side so we do some shared dealing. Machine learning is going to be able to tell
us when the peaks are going to be, how people are going to behave in certain market changes.
We live in a very, very unstable world at the moment. It will be great as we move down this
AI journey and this machine learning journey to be able to predict better how people are going
to behave in certain circumstances. I really appreciate you taking the time to kind of walk us
through the way you're approaching this. It sounds like you've got a kind of an interesting
set of plans ahead of you. No, thank you. It's been my absolute pleasure and I think,
hopefully you've got a taste of the fact that at the end of the day, our employee wellbeing
and our client's quality is at the heart of everything we do. Machine learning and what we've
used so far with WFI and with PEGA is really starting to make a difference in that scenario.
And we're at the beginning. We've got a long way to go in that. We know that, but it's been an
exciting start. There's a lot more to do, but hopefully I've given you a flavour of that today of
where we started and where we're going to. Absolutely. Thank you, Michael. Thank you.
All right, everyone. That's our show for today. For more information on Michael or any of the
topics covered in this episode, head on over to twimmaleye.com slash talk slash 153.
To follow along with the PEGA World Series, visit twimmaleye.com slash PEGA World 2018.
As always, thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
