Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
This week on the pod we are excited to present our AI and sports series, perhaps especially
apropos given that much of the globe is glued to the world cup at the moment.
While I'm not personally the biggest sports fan, my producer Amari is a huge sports follower
and this series has been something he's wanted to see for a while now.
So if you like these shows, be sure to send them a shout out on Twitter at at Twimble underscore
Amari, I am ARI.
In this episode of the series, I'm joined by Jennifer Hobbs, senior data scientist at
Stats, a collector and distributor of sports data, covering sports like basketball, soccer,
American football and rugby.
Jennifer and I explore the stats data pipeline and how they collect and store different types
of data for easy consumption and application.
We dig into the paper she co-authored, Mythbusting set pieces in soccer, which takes a look
at the data surrounding free kicks and corner kicks in soccer and an effort to debunk
some longstanding myths around various situations.
If you're using machine learning to try to predict world cup winners, you'll definitely
want to check out this segment.
Finally, Jennifer and I chat about potential projects and applications of machine learning
to sports and the accessibility of sports specific data sets to hobbyists.
Alright, let's do it.
Alright everyone, I am on the line with Jennifer Hobbs, Jennifer is a senior data scientist
with Stats.
Jennifer, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Great, thanks for having me.
Awesome, so you got your PhD in physics and astronomy.
How did you make your way to data science and just as interestingly, how did you make
your way into sports data science?
Sure, so my background is starting from undergraduate, I was at Northwestern, I was in the Integrated
Science program and also study math and physics, actually originally started out in neutrino
physics and did research at Fermi lab for several years, starting when I was in undergraduate
and then continuing into my PhD.
And about maybe during my first or second year of my PhD, I realized that that's not quite
where my passion was and you know, looked at a couple of different labs and I'd always
had an interest in neuroscience and kind of how the brain worked and so I wound up working
with a professor who was in a biomedical engineering and mechanical engineering lab looking
at how the brain encodes touch and so in particular studying the rat whiskers system.
So I joined MATLAB, I started doing some behavioral as well as computational neuroscience work
and really through that is how I kind of became exposed to machine learning.
I really had it had any exposure or really knowledge of the field prior to that but
just particularly through a neural coding project that I work on really started to learn
about all of the you know, work that had been done in you know, pattern recognition and
machine learning for years and really found that to be my passion and got involved in that.
And then after graduating, I was actually at a insurance company doing predictive analytics
for a year and then this position at STATS opened up where they are you know, creating
a new AI data science team to you know, leverage this wealth of data that STATS has and to
you know, produce new insights and you know, leverage machine learning and AI to really
kind of revolutionize how we understand and ingest and even take sports data.
Interesting.
So that first exposure to machine learning from neuroscience perspective was that you
mentioned that was a project that you worked on as opposed to a class.
Can you elaborate on it?
Sure.
So one of the great things about my graduate school lab was that we were from all sorts
of different departments.
So I was in physics, we had applied math people, neuroscience students, BME students,
MECI students all in the same lab which made it you know, a great really kind of fertile
cross collaboration.
And one of the students who was BME, more on the BME neuroscience side, he had been taking
all of this neural recordings from primary sensory neurons and saying like, well, how do
we understand what the brain is actually encoding?
What is the actual original input and the appropriate representation that goes into the neurons
that the rat could be using to make these discrimination tasks much higher up kind of
later in the processing stage.
And so I was asked to kind of be involved in the project and kind of help do that because
I had the more you know, mathematical background.
And so really was just kind of like here's here's a problem we're trying to solve.
We have whiskers that are being tracked from there it goes into a mechanical model.
We can get forces and moments and we want to predict and then we have neural recordings.
We have an electrical signal from that we can extract spikes and we basically want to
go from you know, mechanics to spikes and see where those see what the neurons are
encoding.
And in trying to solve it, that's really where I got you know, got exposed.
And so, you know, we were using things like general literary models, but in the process
of learning that, then I was just exposed to the whole you know, breath and wealth of techniques
that were out there.
Yeah.
I never cease to be fascinated by this kind of two way relationship between neuroscience
and machine learning where learning and being inspired by neuroscience to innovate on
the machine learning side, but neuroscience is also benefiting heavily from that innovation
and the way they understand neurons, super interesting work.
What does that do?
You know, you kind of mentioned sports and sports data, but what's the idea behind the company?
Yeah.
So, so, status has, you know, been around for about 35 years and we have this huge amount
of data that we collect across all types of sports, you know, common sports that you
think of, you know, football, basketball, baseball, but also something that you've probably
never have and you'll, you'll, you'll never, never experience because they're, they're
more remote.
And so, we have all of, all of these kind of records and data that exists there, but in addition
to that, you know, for certain sports, we have kind of a next level of data that's our
event data.
So, if you were to look at a sport like soccer, we know where, you know, we know information
about passes and shots and things like that that we can use to further understand the game
to really start telling, you know, a better story of what actually occurs and who's contributing
and how.
And then kind of as a, the layer on top of that, again, in sports like, like soccer and
basketball, we have player and ball tracking information.
So really at, at every point during a game, we know where all the players are on the field
and we know where, where the ball is.
And then that really allows us to tell, you know, an even richer story and understand
the game and really kind of, you know, draw further insights and do more complex analysis
to really recreate the game from, from this data.
And who is the target or end consumer of the analysis that you're doing?
Is it the teams or consumers like via media products?
Right.
So it spans, it spans everybody.
A lot of it is media facing.
So if you can imagine you're watching, watching a game and a lot of times an announcer will
add some kind of statistics that have to add color to it, you know, very likely that data
is coming from us.
And you know, then even as a consumer, if you're, you know, going on to a site or you're
asking, you know, first sports statistic, chances are we're providing that data as well.
But also the teams, there's a, you know, team performance space where teams want to know,
again, all of the stats about their players.
And you know, now that as we're, you know, adding more advanced analytics on top of that
through machine learning, you know, how can we actually deliver them insights directly
as opposed to just maybe raw data points?
Interesting.
I must be the only one that thought that sports announcers just had these amazing statistical
memories for their teams that they follow.
Right.
Right.
No, it's impressive.
The amount of manpower from, you know, just at all levels, whether it's, you know,
the kind of the engineering side that creates the database that stores it that allows that
data to be accessed quickly to the more, you know, media facing people who are, you
know, in the truck, knowing how to access that data and kind of find the right, you know,
ask the right question to surface the right insight so that you can, can get that kind
of interesting fact during, during the broadcast.
Along those lines, can you talk a little bit about the, I guess your data pipeline, the
way you kind of conceive of and mapping out all of the data that's coming in and the
flows and how you process it?
Sure.
So a lot of that is very, very sport and also like data, data specific.
So how we collect, what I'd call traditional box score data is different from, you know,
the tracking data.
So our group focuses primarily on how we make value out of the tracking data.
So for a sport like basketball, for instance, you know, we have, you know, cameras in venue
that would, you know, collect the, you know, track the players and then, you know, produce
these, you know, process it using, you know, computer vision techniques and then extract
the positions and then, you know, intake that for, for later analysis.
And then our group is, you know, releasing, all right, now, you could imagine that the
way you ingest and store data from just kind of a storage perspective is different than
how you maybe want to format it to make discoveries and make insights and kind of surface them
quickly.
So a lot of the work that our group has done has been to really kind of look at a lot
of the advances and technologies in the data space and the end, you know, some of the cloud
computing and no SQL databases out there to, you know, how can we, how can we shape the
data in a way that answers questions of interest and allows us to do the analysis that we want?
You know, so then we can, you know, take this raw data and start, you know, start enriching
it, start adding information on top of it.
I'm going to, again, you could imagine that there's just, there's so much data that for
a single game, you know, depending on the sport, 10, 20, you know, points per player per
second across an entire game, there's, there's a huge amount of data there.
So really leveraging a lot of those, uh, the big data stack that exists out there to
process and analyze it and literally just kind of move it around so that it can be surface
quickly.
Interesting.
So do you, does your group or even do you personally identify more with the data engineering
and kind of infrastructure side of things or more the statistical analysis and the data
product side of things?
So we really get to interact with it from throughout the entire life cycle because, um,
and I think that's really important because the, the representation and the, right, the
way you encode and, and format and understanding records at your data is really critical
for, for any analysis to occur downstream.
So, you know, we work with engineering to actually like, you know, to build the products
to put it into production, but, you know, we're, we're keenly involved in, in saying,
what is that right representation, what is the right storage?
How do we, um, you know, the, how do we format and store this data and describe this
data in a way that really captures all the information and, and is, isn't lossy because
we don't want to do anything to the data that could possibly, um, you know, lose information.
And so we're certainly involved in kind of that, that early process and then we do, you
know, work with, with engineering to, um, you know, to build out the pipelines that we
can do the analysis, we build the models and then we get those models into production.
And then we also interact closely with, um, with our design team as far as, all right,
I, you can imagine, you know, I, I have a certain, a certain insight, a certain data point
that I want to surface to the end user, but whether that end user is a team or a consumer
or a media client, the same piece of information could be, uh, ingested in different ways.
So what's the right way of presenting that to, you know, answer the questions that, that
they're looking for?
Do any particular examples come to mind of how the representation, you know, particularly
as deep as, you know, the, the way the data was stored had an impact on the, the insights
that you were ultimately able to derive or the models that you were ultimately able
to create and kind of that back and forth between representation and, and product?
Sure.
So, um, you know, you, you could imagine that, you know, again, for our tracking data,
we have all of the, the positions of the players.
And, and there is so much information there that, you know, um, how it's stored, how it
acts as access is, is very, very important for, for processing time, as well as our ability
to do, um, to do analysis.
So, um, one of the things that, that, you know, our group does is that we work directly on,
on the trajectory.
So given the players, um, you know, we can leverage both the individual player motions,
as well as the group structure, uh, that's involved in sports to start, you know, to build
our analysis to, to do our predictions.
So, um, one of the challenging things with sport, you can imagine is that they're not just,
you know, think of, think of basketball, they're not just five independent agents per,
team, right, they're, they're interacting with people, um, with their, with their teammates,
they're also interacting with the other, uh, their team, um, to try and understand an individual
player's movement kind of in isolation is really losing that, that interactiveness, uh,
that exists.
In contrast to, um, say something like pedestrian detection where you have, uh, you know,
we're, you know, a variable number of people out there and they're just kind of trying
to avoid each other and things like that, right, there's a much more complexity in that
kind of group behavior that exists in sports.
And so we're really able to, um, exploit that and work on the trajectories, uh, together
and understand that all of the players are really involved in interacting, um, and from
their build our models, uh, which really allows us to, again, like, to work on that, that
really true raw representation of the data.
And so to make sure I understand that is there or at some point in designing this pipeline,
this process, was there a trade-off between whether you stored player information individually
or in the context of a team and you chose to do it in the context of a team?
Is that what you're getting at here?
So, so from the, from the data model, not as much, um, you know, you can imagine having,
I think each player has, has a location, um, but then kind of once we have that stored,
you know, how we leverage it is really, uh, kind of where the, where the keys are, and
maybe I'm not quite, quite following your questions, are you?
Oh, no, I was, I was going back to your comment about how you found it important to tie kind
of the underlying data engineering to the kind of the work to be done and how you often
find that, you know, the problems you're trying to solve influences the way you need to
store and represent the data at a low level.
And I was kind of digging for examples of, you know, where that low level representation,
you know, made a big impact or you, you, you weren't able to accomplish something until
you tweaked that low level representation.
Sure, so, uh, right, really having, you know, information about all the players at every
point in time, um, it is really key.
And so kind of from a data perspective, that's, that's really where we operate.
And then, you know, at the more of the modeling stage, I mean, if you look at a lot of the
work that our group has done has been around, like leveraging the formational, uh, alignment
of, of players so that we can really understand again operating directly off of the trajectories
as opposed to, um, you know, having to, having to operate, um, yeah, let's see, I'm kind
of thinking about that.
It sounds like maybe what I'm hearing that is, you, you may have this data that is, you
know, it may come in as images, uh, and you have to figure out how to store that.
And then you may extract from that x, y, positional information, uh, but you, you know, also
want to eventually get to player trajectories and as opposed to having to figure that out
each time you need to be able to store that.
And so there's, there's this constant trying to figure out how to store these things that
you're ultimately going to need to go further with your end products.
Is that where you're going?
Sure.
That's certainly, um, you know, one aspect of it is, you know, extracting as much information
as we can out of the image and then, you know, going through the whole tracking life cycle
as if you will, you know, from detections to, to tracks to really understand, um, where
all of the, uh, the players are, um, there's kind of a second step to that, which is, uh,
the group has done a lot of work on search in sports.
So, um, you could imagine that, you know, if you're watching a game and you see a play
and you say, well, that's really interesting.
I want to, I want to know if that's when that play has been run before.
I want to find similar plays like how do you, how do you do that with, um, you know, multiple
agents and how do you, how do you search for that?
And you can imagine say, well, if I have, um, you know, all of my data coming in is, is
based on player ID.
I know that this human was standing in this position.
But if I'm only looking, if I limit myself to only looking by based on identity, um, it
really kind of limits my ability to find, um, to find those similar plays.
So, uh, a lot of the work that the group has done is to, uh, recognize, again, that, that
group structure and to find, um, the, uh, the, the right way to represent them so that
we can, um, find plays based on where a player is in their, uh, positional formation as
opposed to being like kind of stuck to the identity.
So certainly there's kind of two phases there.
There's the, I want to be able to represent the data in my data models that I have all
of it available to me.
And then if I want to be able to query it, I don't want to be necessarily bound to something
as hard as identity.
I want to know, um, where the player is in their, in their group position.
Interesting.
So this search function that you're describing, it's not relying at all.
It sounds like on tagged, uh, this is a X play, like a named play or something like that.
It's based on kind of the relative positions of the players.
Correct.
Right.
We want to learn the playbook directly from the data.
So you could imagine a coach, you know, having to go through and say, all right, like,
here's, here's play, here's play alpha, here's, here's play beta, whatever.
Um, and that's obviously very, you know, onerous and time consuming on, on the coach.
Um, but again, you see, you see the structure that exists in sport.
You see certain actions, certain plays that get run repeatedly.
And if, if we can recognize those as kind of entities, you know, our ourselves who are
watching the game, you know, the computer should be able to learn how to do that, uh, by
leveraging machine learning.
So what we're able to do is to, um, to find those similar plays just directly from the
ball and, and player trajectories so that you could imagine, like, here's a similar play.
Here's a play.
Can I find all of the plays just like that?
Huh.
Can you, can you walk us through the, kind of the types of models that you use to do this,
like the input data sounds like positions and trajectories?
Like how do you, uh, how, how does it work, I guess, you know, to the extent that you can
share it?
Sure.
And again, like members of the group have done, um, a lot of work on this, uh, for a
while.
And it's a little bit, you know, the way we've actually implemented it for different sports
is has some slight subtleties.
But what the general idea is that, um, we kind of, we're able to, to using the trajectories
of all of the players, find where they kind of fit into a, um, into a formation.
So we find some kind of, um, ordering that, that preserves the, the structure.
And then from there.
And so if I can, if I can push pause on that, what is, what does that mean?
Like how, how are you representing that?
Is this like, uh, you know, a, a spatial type of model?
Like position one is, you know, X, uh, you know, some distance and angle from another
or is it some other kind of thing?
Right.
So, um, it's, in, in some ways, more, more general than that.
So you could imagine for, um, for a sport like soccer, that you say, well, here's, here's
the center back.
And again, you could imagine somebody going through and actually tagging all of the players,
um, but players, players swap positions, uh, they move around.
And so somebody who's kind of nominally in one position in a given play, they might have,
you know, switched with, with their partner just to, to get, you know, back into defensive
position to have all of the spots filled.
And so what we're able to do is say, well, I can actually learn directly from the data
um, the, the formation that this team plays.
And so even though this person is maybe nominally a left back in this particular play, he got,
you know, he had a switch, you know, places with, with somebody else and he's actually playing
on the right side right now.
And so from their positions, we're actually able to, you know, match them back to, to a
known, uh, known formation and then use their, use their positions at that time, um,
not just some kind of hard coded, uh, tag.
And that really allows us to, to understand, um, their positioning based on, on where
they are in this, again, in this kind of group, formational structure as opposed to, um,
you know, a label that's fixed throughout the course of the game.
Okay.
So the first step is kind of, uh, representing the general formation of the team.
So the player is relative to one another, uh, and then what's next?
So, so once we understand where the players are in relationship to, to their, you know,
their formational template, like that allows us to then say, all right, you know, given
that I know they're here, I can start to, I can maintain a certain ordering, um, and,
you know, the, for, for machine learning, uh, NAI to work, you know, the computer needs
to have some kind of, you know, fixed expectation of how, um, you know, of the incoming order
of, of the features that you're going to pass to it.
So you can imagine that, you know, by knowing where the players are and where they fall
in the structure, this allows us to, um, you know, to have that fixed representation
of where they are.
And then from there, we can do, you know, any sort of analysis on top of it.
If it's, you know, in this case for search, um, it allows us to start, you know, creating
a consistent metric so that we're comparing, um, comparing, you know, the, the person in,
um, the left-back position always to, you know, other left-backs, even if at the start
of the game that he might have been listed as a, as a different positional player.
And you have this formation information.
Do you look at transitions of that formation from, you know, A to B to C relative to the
movement of the ball or things like that over time?
Like I guess, you know, the picture that I have in my head when you talk about plays
is like your classic, like, uh, clipboard, you know, player here, player here and then transitions
or trajectories or something like that.
And I'm trying to map all that to, uh, to the machine learning context and what you're
doing.
Sure.
So you could imagine as kind of a base level, you could just say, well, I, I think there's
some kind of general formation out there, you know, maybe that, that a team has and
you can certainly learn that.
And then you can say, well, you know, particularly in soccer as the, um, you know, as the ball
moves as a team transitions from defense to offense, you really kind of see that, that
formation change.
You might see them become more aggressive offensively as they get the ball, um, near their attacking
goal.
And you can see the defenders kind of kind of step up and so that, that formation changes.
So by using, um, various hierarchical methods, we can actually learn, you know, a set or
relationship of, of these different formations and then look to see, well, okay, how does that,
how does it change, um, you know, does, does that formation change?
When I'm on an offense versus defense, when I have the ball closer to my goal, um, what
happens if I'm winning or are losing?
Do I start to kind of change that, um, change that formation to, to protect my lead as opposed
to being more aggressive and trying to score?
Um, and so like we have, we have observed those changes, but because we're able to detect
that automatically from the data, you know, it's not something that we have to go through
and kind of get painstakingly labeled, it just, it, it's something that we can detect
automatically.
Right.
The, you mentioned hierarchical methods.
Can you elaborate on that?
So sure.
So one of our team members had done work particularly and basketball on this just as we're,
as we're learning these, um, these kind of different, uh, different templates for these
different states, um, he has an approach to do, um, multi agent hierarchical clustering.
So again, we have trajectories for, uh, you know, uh, for all of the players and we can
say, all right, like what's the, how do we find kind of again that, that base formation?
And then from there saying, all right, like this is kind of, this is a certain, a certain
state.
And then we kind of step into that and say, um, all right, like what's the right way to
essentially, um, you know, order of players within that, within that state.
And then from there, can I split that out, do substates exist, um, you know, are there
additional, um, you know, clusters within there and kind of keep, keep breaking down and
doing this approach until we can, you know, find these very specific, um, play states
that, that we can, can identify.
I came across a paper that you co-authored about myth-busting set pieces and soccer.
Uh-huh.
Can you share, uh, what that one is about?
So this is a paper that, um, that we, uh, presented at Sloan this past year and, uh, set pieces
are, you know, something that teams are really interested in because, um, you know, they,
they can, you know, produce a lot of, um, scoring opportunities, but there's also some myths
about, well, when I, um, you know, when I take a set piece, if I'm too aggressive, like
is it going to lead, you know, to a chance by the other team?
And so really, the idea here was to just kind of go through, um, some of the commonly
held, uh, held beliefs are, around set pieces and really just, you know, look at, look at
what the data says.
Instead of going, you know, by, by your gut, can we actually go through and, and, and kind
of tick these off and say, you know, what does the data actually support?
And I think that's one of the, you know, really exciting things about what we do in this
group is that, um, you know, a lot of people, you know, whether it's coach, whether it's
a fan, they've, you know, seen a lot of sport they have and tuition for it.
They have, um, you know, these kind of gut, gut instances to what's there.
But really with the availability of, of tracking data, we can actually get to what, what
the data says and actually answer these types of questions that really just aren't, aren't
available, um, otherwise.
And for those that don't know set pieces or like corner cakes and free kicks and soccer.
Yes.
Yeah.
And another question I had was in that paper there where you hasn't like, it really
interesting heat maps of the player positions relative to these set pieces is that produced
from the like the visual positioning data that you get.
Correct.
So, you know, at a certain level, we can just look to, you know, look at the ball on C where
teams attempt to, to deliver a kick, uh, in these scenarios, but then we can kind of go
a step further and say, all right, let's use the tracking data to maybe understand how,
teams defend corners, for instance.
And so in that case, again, we have the, we have all the player tracking data and using
a convolutional or neural net, we can try, we can, you know, use, use the data and determine
whether a team is in a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a defense or a man-demand
defense or something and more of a hybrid.
And then once we have, we're able to detect that, then we can say, all right, like does
that lead to do, do any of these, um, lead to more goals than, than the other?
So this sounds like it maybe ties to some of the, the previous work that we discussed
where you've figured out through maybe these hierarchical approaches that you've used
or the, the templates, like, you know, these types of defenses and then you've, maybe
have those labeled somewhere as like labeled pictures, you know, this is, this defense
this is another, and then you use that as the input to, uh, CNN classifier to figure
out, uh, for a given image.
Is that what you're doing?
Right.
So in the case of, of set pieces, it's a little bit different than, than open play.
Like you imagine it, in open play, again, there's this really strong, formational signature
that exists, um, for something like a corner, the way player set up is, um, more, more chaotic,
uh, it kind of lacks that, that, you know, strong and form, formation that, that you
would imagine.
Um, and so here we actually, um, in this work, just operated like directly on, um, I'm
like the image representation of the player, so you can imagine, um, you know, knowing where
each player is thinking of it, um, you know, as, as having a, uh, point, point in an image
being being occupied.
And then from there saying, right, if I know how they're moving, I can, um, detect certain,
certain features, you know, using the CNN, uh, and then from some labels.
So, um, so Paul, who was the first author on the paper, um, he has a, you know, tremendous
background, uh, in, in soccer.
And so, um, he was able to, you know, to go through and like, look at, look at the video,
look at the trajectories and say, all right, this is a, this isn't, uh, example of, of
a hybrid defense, as opposed to a man defense, as opposed to a zone defense.
And then once we have those, um, you know, it build the, the class fire to detect those
automatically going forward, you, you took like a myth busting type of approach, uh, in
the paper, obviously given the title and you identified 10 specific, uh, myths that
folks held about these types of situations, like, um, a team is more likely to score from
a free kick cross compared to a corner.
And then why you busted that myth and show, no, there's only a 2% chance of, of scoring
from the corner, as opposed to a 1% chance of scoring from the, the free kick.
And there were a bunch of other, of these types of myths.
Was there any that was most kind of surprising or, or interesting to the team?
I think the, the work that just, um, you know, I, I, identifying the defenses, uh, that
the teams are playing was really interesting, just cut seeing the, the relative frequencies
that that each played in was interesting.
Well, I think the one that I think most surprised, uh, most people on the team was about, um,
defending, uh, defending the post.
So I think a lot of people, um, believe that, you know, you should put a man on, on at
least one of the posts near and or far, um, but what, uh, you know, what this work showed
was that, um, having players on both posts actually, you know, conceded the most number
of goals, um, while having a player on, on the back post, uh, conceded the, conceded
the fewest and, um, you know, in some ways, you say, well, I, I, I don't know, I, I know,
you know, by, by putting a player on the post, you're, you're certainly kind of cutting
down on the angle, but you're in some ways giving the offense more freedom to, to move
around.
So I think that's one instance where people have really strong feelings either, either
way, you know, one way or the other, um, so, uh, I think that was probably the most,
most surprising to, to members of the team.
Can you talk a little bit about the way you processed your data for, for this particular
task?
Um, right.
So, so for all of this, you know, we've leveraged both the event data that we have,
again, that has things like, um, shots, passes, crosses, corners, the type of pass where
it occurred from, who took it, um, as well as, as well as the tracking data.
And so, um, you know, like in, in much of the work that we do, it's really a matter of,
of bringing them all together, um, and here was a combination of both, you know, in some
cases, constructing features, you know, by hand that we can analyze, um, as well as,
you know, in the case of like detecting the defense, um, you know, using, using, uh, you
know, deep learning approaches to, in some way, you know, construct the features for
us.
Um, so, you know, it was, uh, a really nice paper because it really brought together
in, in some ways, like, all facets of both the data and the, and the, uh, analysis
side, the events and the tracking, as well as kind of the handcrafted features, as well
as the, uh, the deep learned features.
And in, in addition to the specific, uh, the, the myths that you busted, you also looked
at the predictive power of the, the model, like the model's ability to predict whether
a given team, you know, what formation a, a team is likely to take given, uh, one of
these set points or set pieces, rather, um, how successful was that part of the project?
Um, are you talking about the, um, defense or, or just like the, the general, um, set
up part?
Uh, well, I, I, I, I, I thought I saw it in there, an element of predicting what a given
team was likely to do, I guess, defensively, uh, okay, sure, right.
So, you know, again, this, this used both the, the events as well as the tracking data,
but, um, you know, we can go through and look at, you know, all, all of the set pieces
that, um, a team has taken over the course of the season and say, all right, you know,
offensively, do they take, you know, in swinging and outs or versus out swinging corners,
you know, short corners, um, you know, do they attempt to do flick-ons?
Um, and how often, you know, do they, you know, try to use the style as well as how successful
are they at, at executing, uh, on that style?
And then defensively, again, you know, having been able to detect the type of, of set-ups
that they use, um, you know, how likely are they to set up in a certain situation?
And then, um, you know, when they set up that way, how likely is that to, to lead to a goal?
And so at, at a glance, we can kind of look at teams and their, um, frequency and their
success in each of these styles and say, you know, what, how do they likely play or when
they're playing well?
How, how do they likely set up?
And then from there, we can say, okay, um, you know, given two teams, I can imagine, um,
you know, predicting, you know, the, given the offensive style of one and the defensive
style of the other, how might they match up?
It sounds like the, the predictions that you were doing about, you know, what a team is
likely to do in any given situation, we're not match-up based, I don't know if this question
makes any sense.
I think what you're getting at is, um, so in, in this particular paper, we didn't, um,
we didn't do predictions off of the, the match-up.
That's kind of the, yeah.
The next step.
You know, what we are looking at here is kind of how, how strong is the stylistic signature
of a team?
You know, certain teams, you could imagine that, um, they might want to take, you know,
the same, the same corner, the same way, every single time, regardless of, of who they're
playing or how, how the defense sets up.
Maybe they're very, very predictable just historically.
But another team could be, um, you know, it's, I don't, I don't really care how I take
it.
I just want to do whatever is the most effective.
So I'm going to look at the defense and whatever they present, you know, to me, I'm going
to take whatever I feel is, is the best approach in, in that moment.
And so here it was more of a, how predictable is a team historically.
But again, once you've kind of created this, this, you know, style analysis of the team,
the next step is to say, all right, you know, given two teams, how do I expect them to,
to interact?
Awesome.
Awesome.
Well, what are some, uh, some other interesting projects on your roadmap or to-do lists?
How do you see kind of the application of ML and deep learning and, uh, AI evolving
as applied to sports?
Yeah.
So the availability of tracking data really kind of, you know, leaves us with, with endless
possibilities.
There's, you know, so much that we can do there to understand, again, the plays that teams
run, um, to identify, to identify plays and then to predict, um, to predict future plays
to do things like, um, right, to, to predict where the players will, will be.
So another paper, you know, that, that our group was involved with through a collaboration,
uh, with, with, uh, Disney, you know, the past couple of years was, um, it's actually
through a, through a collaboration with, um, with Disney research, the, the past two
years, there's been some work at Sloan on, on ghosting.
So originally it was on a software and this past year for, for basketball, where, um,
you know, given the, um, offensive players, like, could you, you know, predict, you know,
where the, the defensive players are?
Um, and so there's, you know, a lot of interesting things there.
We have this huge wealth of data and with, um, you know, the, all the advances in, um,
she learning in particular and deep learning, we can start to do really fine grain analysis
and simulation, uh, predicting where the players are, where they'll go, what type of plays
to be run.
Um, there's really just a huge amount of, of different avenues that, that you can go
there.
And, you know, it's really all, you know, largely driven by the data and having access
to the data is really what enables us to ask these, you know, very specific, um, questions.
What if, um, you know, given, given a play and I have a shot, um, you know, what, um,
what if I move players around?
What if a different player took, um, took the shot?
Uh, there's a lot of opportunities to do, um, personalized, uh, modeling, which we've,
we've done.
So as I was explaining it, again, like, given, given a certain play, um, you know, what
happens if there's a different defender, a different, a different shooter, what happens
if the, the angle or the, the distances are just slightly different, um, how does that
impact the outcome and then building up from single plays to, to more complex, um, kind
of longer scale activities?
Uh, you, you mentioned in there how this all kind of revolves around having access to
the data, uh, I'm curious in your, what's your sense for how accessible sports applications
of ML are for hobbyists?
Like are there, are there freely available, uh, or open source data sets that, um, you're
familiar with that folks could use to play around with, certainly, you know, clearly sports
is a hobby for a lot of people and data science is, uh, you know, a hobby or interest for a
lot of people that folks wanted to combine those two and get started, um, are there ways
to, uh, do interesting things or, you know, are all the data sources kind of proprietary
collected?
You know, I, I think at the past, certainly for my experience, you know, the, you know,
before I was here, you know, a lot of times people looking for sports data were kind of,
um, you know, limited to, to try and discrete things off of websites and that to, to, to
build their models.
Um, you know, we actually, uh, through some of the papers that, um, that, that our group
has published have three data sets out there that, that people can, you know, quest for,
for research purposes, um, you know, one of them is, um, in, in soccer, one of them is
in basketball.
Those are both trajectory based, um, related to, to the, uh, to, you know, the trajectory
analysis, um, that we've done.
So we have, um, actually through, uh, our website have three, uh, data sets that, that
people can request to do, um, to do, you know, academic research work, you know, hobbyist
type, type analysis, um, two of them are trajectory based, one of them for soccer, one of them
for basketball.
They're probably more complex, you know, it's, it's just literally like x, y position
of the players.
So, um, you don't have to use some sophisticated techniques there to really kind of parse
it and understand it, um, because it's, you know, again, pretty, pretty complex data, um,
but one of the other papers that we had at Sloan, uh, this past year was doing, um, uh, wind
probability analysis.
And so there is, uh, data, another data set that we have where, um, you can, you know,
look at that data to, to recreate some of, some of those results.
And probably I'd say like for the, for the general public, that's probably the, um, you
know, most accessible, accessible one, um, you know, that if players wanted to, or that
if people wanted to get their, their hands dirty with, you know, it's really, uh, unique
set of data that, that they can use to answer a bunch of questions.
Well, Jennifer, thanks so much for taking the time to share what you're working on.
It sounds like really fun stuff.
Yep.
Yeah, it's great.
You know, we, we have, uh, really the huge amount of data out there that, that we can
do, you know, really interesting things with, you know, across, across a variety of sports.
Um, you know, it's, it's ever evolving and, and, you know, with, uh, a lot of the advances
over the, the past, you know, several years, um, really kind of the sky is the limit
as far as what we can explore and what kind of new, new data points we can reveal and, and
interesting questions that we can ask and answer.
Fantastic.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you so much.
All right, everyone, that's our show for today for more information on Jennifer or any
of the topics covered in this episode.
Head on over to twimlai.com slash talk slash 157.
To follow along with the AI and sports series, visit twimlai.com slash AI and sports.
If you're a fan of the podcast, we'd like to encourage you to head to iTunes and leave
us your best rating and review.
They are super helpful as we push to grow this show and the community.
As always, thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
