Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
In this episode of our AI and sports series, I'm joined by Noah Gift, founder and consulting
CTO at Pragmatic Labs and professor at UC Davis.
Noah previously worked for a startup called Score Sports, which used machine learning to
uncover athlete influence on social media and internet platforms.
Noah and I look into some of his findings in that role, including how to predict the
impact of athlete's social media engagement.
We also discussed some of his more recent work using social media to predict which players
hold the most on-court value and how this work could lead to more complete approaches
to player valuation.
Finally, we spent some time discussing some areas that Noah sees as ripe for new research
and experimentation across sports.
And we take a look at his upcoming book, Pragmatic AI, an introduction to cloud-based machine
learning.
For those interested in pre-ordering the book, be sure to check out the link in the show
notes for a nice discount code.
And now on to the show.
All right everyone, I am on the line with Noah Gift.
Noah is a consulting CTO and professor at UC Davis and was recently CTO of a sports company
Score Sports. Noah, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Hi, glad to be here.
It's great to have you on the show.
It is our tradition here to have our guests introduce themselves to the audience.
And why don't you do that and tell us a little bit about how you got involved in AI and
machine learning.
Yeah, so I have, I think a pretty unusual background in that for a period of my life when I was
about 10 years old, I worked in television and film, I grew up in Los Angeles.
So I have this other career as a teenager and it culminated in working as a editor for
ABC Network News on, you know, national news.
You know, I remember distinctly cutting the story about OG Simpson and passing that live
on the air.
Oh wow.
Yeah, so I had to keep going.
And then just put push-paws on that.
Like how did that happen?
Is that like, did you start as like the typical child star thing and find your way into the
quote-unquote back office or editing or something like that or was it a totally different
path from what we might imagine?
Well, it was totally different in that my dad had a television production company.
So I guess it's a little bit like how, you know, there's kids now that are writing
iPhone apps at 10 because her dad was a programmer.
Well, my dad worked television and he had a company and I was working with him.
I guess as an apprentice, television, camera, you know, microphones, editing, just knew
all the stuff.
Awesome.
And then it just accommodated and I eventually got it.
It's again, there's a lot like a programmer, you get a job as an editor.
At the time, as you had to know the equipment, you go into, you know, a lot like a programming
test.
You go to let's say ABC and you say, hey, I'm an editor and they say, okay, well, let's
see if you can edit and they give you a test and if you pass it, then they hire you.
And so I passed it and I worked for the news for a while and this is 1992, I think,
the 1993, and at the time I was, I was getting paid like $500 a day.
So for a teenager, that was, that was, that was very nice.
That was very happy with that salary.
And then I just, I was actually given the opportunity to do that as a full-time job.
But even though my dad was actually encouraging me to never go to college, I was, I rebelled
and decided to go a different path.
And I think part of it was that I've always been really interested in sports and I was
competitive at basketball, football, track and, and in college, did to Cathlon.
And basically, there's a period in my life where there's, I wanted to be a professional
athlete.
I didn't care what sport was, track, basketball.
Even at one point, Ultimate Frisbee, I remember, there was, in my mid 20s, there's a guy
that was trying to, you know, get me onto his pro, Ultimate Frisbee, or semi-pro, I
guess, Ultimate Frisbee team.
But that's probably why I eventually ended up getting a bachelor's degree from Cal Poly
San Francisco was, in nutritional science, was just, that was my passion.
And then when I, there was a period after I graduated from Cal Poly that, that I was training
to play professional basketball.
And I was training with some people that played on teams in Europe and I, you know, had
some trials scheduled and then at the same time I was, my back at plan was to get a job
somewhere.
And I'd, I'd happen to get a job offer at Cal Tech.
And so it was a very difficult decision for me to go, oh, wow, this is a Cal Tech or
try to play professional basketball and make, you know, 20 grand a year.
And I decided to work at Cal Tech.
You know, I still in that way have some regrets about that, but I work, I, I, I got a
job at Cal Tech and I, I really it, from there it changed a lot of the way I think in it.
That's really what got me interested in AI was some of the people I met, I mean, really
changed my life.
I learned about Python there back in 2000, nobody used Python, but it was just something
that all my friends did.
So I figured I had to do it.
And then I met a lot of really famous AI people.
Just accidentally.
It was like Forest Gump.
I mean, the, the Feifei, who is in charge of AI at Google, I remember having dinner
with her, just randomly meeting her, um, Kristoff Coke at the CNS lab, who is in charge
of Paul Allen's Institute, just some guy I knew, um, one of my really good friends and mentors
was this guy named Dr. Bogan, who did the first hemisfrectomy.
Um, I remember going to his house all the time, hemisfrectomy, hemisfrectomy, removing
half of the brain, uh, it was a, it was a, it was a procedure that was done to, um, you
know, they didn't do it that often, but it was done for epileptic patients that had,
you know, basically debilitating seizures.
Okay.
And he was working under Kristoff Coke and, and he became a mentor to me and I, I distinctly
remember having many conversations at dinner about neural networks and how they're used
to, uh, figure out who would be, uh, a fighter pilot and, and, and so all these ideas about
AI and neural networks were, what percolating at the time I was, you know, an okay, you
know, I would say, uh, amateurish, you know, cis admin type programmer, but so in a way
as funny, I was much more interested in AI back then in my early 20s, um, and, and in
fact, before I was even interested in programming, and I remember talking to a professor at,
at Caltech and he'll probably, you know, he'll probably not admit to this, but I remember,
we're asking him, like, hey, I'm so excited about AI, and he said, oh, you should even,
uh, think about that.
It's a dead field.
It's, uh, you know, AI winter, you know, just, you're wasting your time.
And I, I just remember thinking, well, I think I'll, I think I'll be interested in it
in a way.
And, and I had, I actually set this goal for myself that, um, and it's, I think I've achieved
it, which is that by the time I'm 40, I wanted to be doing something serious and AI, and I
wanted to be fluent in several programming languages.
And that's pretty much happened.
And nice.
I think, yeah, I was part of it was just the people I met and, and also, I guess I've
always been motivated by people that tell me, maybe it's the sports part of me, but
people that told me, oh, oh, you can't do that.
And it's like, oh, okay, well, that's exactly what I'm going to do that very nice, very
nice.
And so you, uh, Cal Tech led to a bunch of other places and most recently before you
went off on your own to do consulting, you were at a startup called score sports.
Is that right?
Yeah.
So, so score sports was interesting to me, again, because of the, the, the athletic component
to it.
And before that worked in film and had a whole other history of, you know, what a digital
avatar and Disney future animation and so many image works, really cool film companies
and where I did a lot of Python programming.
But then, uh, and then I spent a long time in, in startups and, you know, doing that in
San Francisco.
But then there was a part of me that was a little not perfectly fitting in, I guess, with
the culture of San Francisco and that, and that, again, I've always been really athletic
and into sports and there, there's, there's almost like an anti healthy, I think it's changed
now.
But there's almost like this, like, oh, you exercise.
Oh, that's weird.
You know, like, at least I felt that way at the start of movie, but maybe I was, I had
a couple of likes.
I don't know.
But, um, I really liked that this was a sports company and people worked out together
and they, they actually did, um, mixed martial arts at lunch and so it was really interesting
to me.
I mean, this is, this is a, this is a really cool culture and I started there.
We really didn't have a product and we, we struggled a little bit initially to build something
and the first three months I was there, though, we, we were able to build a, um, a, uh, lightweight
fantasy app that had a lot of traction and we're like, and we were like, okay, this is,
this is maybe, we're on to something here and we were very fortunate, though, because
we had some, um, secret, uh, weapons, I guess and one of our secret weapons was Brett
Farve.
He was on the board of the company and, you know, he, he was, we knew that if we built something
that was marginally useful that having him a part of it would, would really take off.
And so the idea for the company was that we were going to be a sports specific social network
and I guess in a way, thinking about Facebook and it's funny now, there's a lot of controversy
around Facebook because of, um, trolls and, you know, uh, yeah, fake news and, and, and,
and, and at the time, though, I think really that the premise was a good premise, which
is there are people that just really don't want to be on Facebook.
They just want to talk about sports.
Right.
And that was the idea it was that I kept, they don't want to, they don't want to rethink
news.
They don't want to talk about politics or religion.
They just want to talk about sports.
And so that's what we started to build and took us about a year and we built, um, a social
network and I remember we had, you know, almost no traffic and one of the first things we
did though was we were pretty smart and that we, we used Brett Flarge to create a prediction
around the NFL draft in 2014.
And this is when Johnny Menzel was, was a big deal.
He was in the NFL draft and, and he talked about it and posted it on score and then, and
then linked to it from Facebook and Twitter and it just, I mean, it was like, uh, you
know, one of the biggest, uh, traffic's days of all time almost, you know, it was, it
was, it was, I think we got, uh, something like five million page views in an hour, like
just a lot of, yeah, just incredible traffic.
And then some of the comments were, you know, I'm crying, I'm so happy that Brett Flarge
talking to me and liking my pose and we're like, okay, this, we're on to something here.
And so as we, as we, at, we knew that there were, and this is where some of the ML and AI
stuff comes in is that originally the thought process too was to, was to provide, um, tools
for athletes to better engage with their fans, um, make revenue.
We felt like they were getting ripped off by Facebook, um, and that if, if you look at
the organic reach of some of these athletes, you know, they're, they're going down to one
to three percent.
And so we, we, the idea was that we wanted to, you know, give intelligent tools, athletes,
create a specific channel.
And then we knew that it's based on some of the historical data that some celebrities
were like Brett Flarge created a lot of traffic.
So the thought process was instead of what typical startups do, uh, by, by buying a lot of
Facebook ads, we were going to create organic growth by partnering with athletes and, but
first finding the athletes that were influential, partnering with them.
And then because we, we're helping them, it was a synergistic relationship and that not
only, um, would we get growth from the platform, but when you pay somebody oftentimes, they're
very friendly with you.
And so they're, they're open to other opportunities.
So that led to two business, um, units in a company that I helped develop, along with some
other people, which were, um, influential marketing, uh, part of the company, which,
ultimately grew to millions of dollars of revenue, uh, and culminated probably the biggest
deal we had was with machine zone, and Connor McGregor.
And then we also had a merchandising part of our company.
So we pay, we pay athletes, we find the best athletes, they, they create growth on our
platform because we have this, um, you know, great relationship with the athletes there
that open to do more deals, which are other influencer marketing deals and also merchandising.
But the, the, the beginning stage there was that as we, as we learned from the data, uh,
that was coming in from the page views and where it came from, we, we did realize that
there was something there that we could, we could use machine learning on to enhance.
And really that, the, the, the core of it was that we were able to look at signals, um,
on Facebook, look at signals on, on Twitter and look at signals and other sources, including
with Wikipedia and create an algorithm that told us who were the most influential, um,
athletes.
And there were some stars that we discovered and one of them was Connor McGregor and Connor
McGregor.
I think is a very interesting one and that, uh, I did this talk of strata just, um, uh,
week ago, but when, when we partnered with him in 2014, I think his average likes per
a post were something like 50, you know, which I think I've gotten posts that are, you
know, 50, 50 likes on them, I mean, maybe not all of them, but it, and then if you look
at now, it's something like, um, I don't know, 4,000 or 5,000.
And so he's, I think had 7,000 times, uh, engagement growth in the last four years.
And what, that was, that was one of the things that we noticed in terms of, um, in signals
was that, is that the follow accounts are really, and I probably people know this by now,
but follow accounts are really meaningless because of the bots and people buying things.
Really the thing to look at is, is what is in, in relative terms, what's the engagement?
You know, our, our, you know, if the meeting level engagement is, is, is very high in relative
uh, percentage to your followers, then that means you're a star and you're going to be
eventually growing, you know, like Connor McGregor, for example.
And so those are the kind of signals that we look for, and then as we got more athletes
that we partnered with, we would get more historical data and the algorithm would get better.
And, um, in a nutshell, it did lead to us getting, uh, for a period of time, uh, sustained,
you know, tens of millions of monthly active users on, on our platform, and then ultimately
culminated in a partnership with, um, one of the largest soccer clubs in the world,
which is Bayern Munich, um, but like, I think, uh, 97% of startups, we ultimately, ultimately
failed, but there was definitely a good run there.
Can you talk a little bit about how you used machine learning in that example?
I think the way you set up the problem, it sounds like simple math, right, divide aggregate
number of likes by a number of followers or something along those lines, uh, but it
sounds like you were doing something else involving collecting historical data and training
a model.
Can you talk a little bit about that?
Yeah.
There's definitely a super, I mean, and this is one of the things I think it's interesting
about machine learning and, um, in reading books or, or teaching, you know, in teaching
a class at, at Davis, when I'm talking to this, uh, about this, is that it's easy to get
a book that you read about some algorithm or psychic learning or Kaggle.
It's like, oh, look, I have this supervised learning data set, but in the real world, you
don't even know what it is you're solving.
And that's in a way, kind of the fun thing is like, what, what, what problem are we even
trying to solve?
And it's, oh, we want to, we want to predict page views.
That's what we ultimately came up with is, oh, so the more page views we get, the, the
more users come on our platform and then they go through our conversion funnel and, and
we get, uh, low, low, um, uh, acquisition rate for users, like a much lower, so what,
what, what, okay, first, first thing was to look at, you know, what are the features, right?
Like, what, what can we, what are the signals, um, that are telling us, uh, you know, how
to predict page views?
And so that did, that, that actually was a very complex problem in a way for, for a few
different reasons.
One is that, you know, in general, again, if it's not a Kaggle data set, we were like,
oh, look, all my features are here, you know, like, in this case, you don't just don't,
you just don't know.
And labels.
Yeah, and labels and, yeah, it's like, let me just search through here and figure out
what's happening.
So even in the case of, let's say, Twitter or Facebook, we had to, to carve through and
look at, you know, what was interesting and what wasn't interesting and, and one of the
ones that, that really ultimately came, turned out to be very predictive was the median
level of engagement, uh, you know, per, per athlete.
And I guess that would be for anybody on Twitter, but like the median level of likes, the
median level of, of, uh, uh, uh, retweets, and the reason why median is so important is
that if you look at just, you know, you just took necessarily, um, all of them, you get
these outliers and it just blows up the data set, um, because there are sometimes somebody
gets lucky and they get like a giant retweet.
And it's like, ah, that just does not indicative of, of really their normal performance.
Right.
Um, so that's one part of it, uh, that, and then, and then also trying to strengthen the
signal by finding other sources like, for example, I, I eventually stumbled upon Wikipedia
and realized that, wow, that this is a, well, in general, I would say, I'm amazed that
more people don't use Wikipedia as a data source.
It's just amazing, but, but definitely correlates very strongly with, um, Twitter and Facebook.
And so if you look at, uh, Wikipedia page views and you look at Twitter engagement, Facebook
and engagement, they're very correlated.
And so, meaning, if you're looking at influencers on Twitter and Facebook that also have Wikipedia
pages about them, that you can correlate them.
Okay.
And, and, and, and so those are all plugging into the model.
And, um, the other part that's, again, one of these cold syrup type or, or real world,
I would say it's cold.
I guess, yeah, it's a combination of cold syrup and real world problems is that, um, it
is non-trivial to get, you know, let's say a thousand, um, social media handles, right?
I mean, you, you have, you have, um, athletes, for example, that have the same name.
So Anthony Davis is one of the stars in India right now for the Pelicans and there was
it one period of time at Anthony Davis and the NFL.
And so it's, it's, even in intern would get tripped up by that.
And so that was a very, very significant problem in that, you know, you're just going to get
garbage results if you don't have really high quality control around the inputs that are
going into your collection.
So, um, that, one of the ways that we solve that was ultimately, we landed upon mechanical
jerk.
And so what we did was we created these mechanical jerk jobs that would, um, ask, let's say
nine people who they thought the social media handles were Twitter handle, Facebook handle,
Wikipedia handle.
And let's say if seven of the nine agreed, I think that's what we figured out was like
a good number for the quorum, then we would, we would select that handle and feed that
into our job collection system, which would then go out and collect the raw data.
And, and then even that part of the problem is another significant problem is that, um,
you know, Twitter APIs will blow up on you, uh, you know, you get rate throttling, Facebook
APIs will blow up on you, you know, you get bad data.
So, um, again, the real world part of it is it ultimately, it took maybe like a year
to really get something with the jobs framework, the collection system, uh, you know, we're
able to accurately, you know, get the handles and, and regularly, you know, run, run our
collection algorithms.
And then, and then all that was, again, about a year.
And so the, the whole 80, 20 thing of, you know, cleaning the data and collecting it takes
all, it's for me is absolutely the truth in the real world.
I'd say even longer than the model, uh, training the model was almost nothing.
Wow.
And so the model output was, it was a, it was a predictor of the number of page use specifically
or some intermediate page use.
So basically, we could, we could at that point, um, feed in all those signals and figure
out very accurately, uh, forget off the top of my head what the root mean squared error
was, but, um, we had a pretty low root mean squared error and we, you, you basically knew
exactly if you partnered with this person that give you, let's say, a thousand page use
for posts.
Huh.
Interesting.
Yeah.
And then what's great about that is, is that I don't know if it's changed, I've been out
of the VC game for a little bit, but, you know, if you look at, um, cost per, uh, cost per
user, you know, we're getting users at like 80 cents a user.
Okay.
So you could back that into a cost per acquisition, cost per user and then use that as part
of your, your fundraising and all that kind of stuff.
Exactly.
I mean, if you say users worth 40 to 80 bucks or whatever, you know, it's like, hey, we
can acquire them for a dollar and then, you know, every dollar you put in is, it's a 40
time to 80 time return depending on, you know, how you value users.
Hmm.
And so you, you went on from working on, uh, this kind of, uh, growth hacking type of
application of machine learning and AI to developing some or at least, you know, starting
to think through ways that you could more, uh, apply a machine learning and AI kind of
more to the core of the company's products.
Is that right?
Yeah.
So then once, once we realized that we really were on to something, uh, then we started
to turn it into something we call it athlete intelligent dashboard.
And we were on the, in the process of, uh, and we had some, some preliminary, like kind
of beta tools that were dashboards that an athlete or a team could look at and they
would show them, they would be able to see similar information to the information that
we used for growth hacking.
So they could, they could see, you know, in relative terms, how did, how does their team
or how does their athlete or their whole roster of athletes, how did, how do they compare
and social media, like, what do they rank, um, how many page views would they give in
a, in a campaign, uh, who are their fans, what are some demographic information?
And then as we started to sell things, we were also linking in, um, sales data.
So, you know, what's, how many, how many, how many items could this, uh, athlete or team
sell?
You know, if, if there's, uh, a product that they're endorsing.
Okay.
And then when we spoke, uh, prior to starting the show, you mentioned, uh, at least I
took the note as, uh, doing some work to predict the best players based on their fans, social
media engagement.
Were you speaking of best in terms of best performing from a kind of marketing influence
or perspective, or was there a crossover to actual player on the field performance based
on their fan engagement?
Yeah.
So, uh, after, after the startup, you know, unfortunately, you know, ran out of cash
and, and some business deals that work out and, and, and I left, um, and ultimately they
don't exist anymore.
Uh, I, I still was thinking about the problem because it was a, it was a really interesting
problem.
And over the last year, as I've decided to write a book on this, I'm not exactly a hundred
percent the subject, but I, I was digging into it more and more.
And one of the, the, the areas that I was interested in was, is that social media was
able to predict, you know, basically, uh, how many page views somebody could give to a
platform and how many products, but I was curious whether it could also predict how good
a player was.
And, in fact, even predict, um, you know, winning, winning like, like, uh, how, you know,
how many wins a player could bring to the team.
And so, I've spent, I would say several months on this this year and the preliminary information
I have is very promising and that some of the conclusions so far are that it does appear
that in the NBA that, that, that owners will play, uh, will pay, um, versus points.
And so anybody that's, uh, a basketball, um, statistics person knows that points are
not, I mean, they're, they're, they're, they're a reasonable predictor of, of winning and,
um, you know, play, uh, play up performance, things like that, but, but there's a lot more
to it.
So players will be paid by, uh, in general by the owners, but, you know, something like
about a point, a million point.
So if you, you know, 10 points a game, you make 10 million, but, but if you really dig
into it, uh, one of the best measures of, of how productive a player is is wins over, essentially
the wins over replacement or, um, I think it's wins, RPM.
So how many wins are attributable specifically to you?
And off the top of my head, I think LeBron James, for example, is a, is a perfect, you
know, like, an outlier in that, I think it's something like 23 or 25 games, just, you
know, there's what 70 something games in the NBA and just LeBron James himself to the
Cleveland Cavaliers is like 23 games.
So he basically puts them in the playoffs just here, you know, and, um, what, uh, so what
I, what I was digging into was, well, do fans engage more highly with, um, uh, players
who have high points or, or players who have, um, you know, better, let's say, say, overall
performance like wins, like wins RPM.
And it does appear that the, that fans, and, you know, but I have, I don't have enough
data to do, to collect this and maybe if somebody wants to hire me to do a year project
on, I would dig more, but it does appear that, um, that, that fans are, are actually really
good judges in terms of, they like to engage with the best players and, and, and, and if,
if you look at, you know, they're, they're engaging lesser with the hype, the high point.
I mean, they're obviously engaging them, but if, if you look at, if you plot, uh, you
know, wins over replacement versus points, you can see the fans more, uh, are more engaged
with the true players who are, who are, um, contributing to their overall team's performance.
So the, I guess the takeaways there, again, this is still pretty, pretty, preliminary
and it's possible I'm, I'm making something in accurate conclusions, but the takeaways
are that, you know, you could start to feed this into, um, uh, you know, better, you know,
algorithms, for example, or, uh, fantasy, you know, you know, you know, fantasy team and,
and, uh, I think it's pretty fascinating again that if you just look at Wikipedia, you
know, it's got this free data set for you, and it's got this incredible power to show
you that, you know, that, that even with the page views, like, if you look at page views,
that, that it appears that, that the best players in terms of the true metrics, like, uh,
Windsor PM, they get, they get higher page views, and if you look at points, hmm.
And do you, is this a, is this something that you think might be, you know, granted your
early in, in the research here, but is this something that you think might be usable as
a leading indicator, meaning helping teams find the next LeBron James or someone who's
undervalued relative to what they're being paid now and help them kind of, uh, you
know, take advantage of that kind of information in, uh, draft type of situations or scouting
types of situations or is it more, um, you know, what's happening in, you know, Wikipedia
social media is an indication of what's happening now and, and not necessarily, you know, having
predictive value.
No, I think it could be a leading indicator and let's, let's take kind of a greater, for
example.
So, um, I will readily admit, uh, I've been a, been a, I would say a, uh, someone new
fan to, um, to, to MMA and UFC, and, you know, part of it was working at the company,
but I remember when Conor McGregor came out and thought, ah, you know, this, this guy's
a showboat, you know, he's, he's going to get destroyed eventually, but the fans, if
you look at the engagement, they must have known something because, um, the, the engagement
level was just incredible in relative terms.
And so I do think there's something there where, you know, the collective wisdom of fans
who really know this local athlete that really, really, really, it says something like, like,
they know something that other people don't know.
And so it, in a way, I think it's a signal that absolutely you could use, and again, this
would be a really fascinating project, it's to look at, let's say NFL drafts and, and
look at the local engagement for, let's say, uh, players.
And if you, instead of looking at these BS stats like, you know, the four yard dash and
all these things that they've shown that I have very little correlations to successfully
NFL, I'd be interested if you plotted that against their social media engagement.
If you would then show if that's predictive of their future success in NFL, again, just
a theory, but I, but I, I have suspicions that there's something there.
Are there players that are that have kind of an outsized social media impact that doesn't
correlate to wins or performance like the exact opposite of, you know, what we're speculating
about now, um, a player that, you know, has, you know, super high social media engagement
and, and potentially as a result of that hat brings super, you know, high value to a team
from a kind of marketing and, and audience engagement perspective, but isn't necessarily
a winning or high scoring player, does that kind of scenario ring any bells?
Yeah, I mean, I could, I could see how you could maybe do some clustering and you could,
you could, you could maybe even classification, like you could, you could say there's, let's
just, off the top of my head, just, just kind of brainstorming here, but like you, you
have Tim Tibo cluster, you know, like, where, like super, super engaged fans, but turns
out, not that good.
And then you have, um, and then you have another cluster, which is that super, super engaged
fans that turns out that they're actually, uh, above average, like significantly above
average.
So, right.
Yeah, I think there is some, there is some probably some, you know, there's a BCG matrix
here that's like your, your popular winners, your popular losers, your, um, popular losers
that you need to get rid of and then your, uh, your winners that are unpopular that maybe
are your, I don't know what you, what the cute names you would assign to these quadrants
are, but, you know, maybe those year, you know, hidden gems are undervalued folks or
something like that that you need to figure out how to, you know, engage with, with fans
or something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I, there's definitely, you know, there's definitely something there and it's surprising
that, uh, I have not heard more about it.
Hmm.
Yeah.
I, you know, I have, I have said on the podcast before that I'm not the, the biggest sports
fan, uh, at all, our producer is a huge sports fan and so we, uh, have, have some interesting
plans to do, uh, some conversations around how machine learning and NAI apply to sports.
But I, I will say that my appreciation for sports, you know, multiplied by, you know,
who knows how many orders of magnitudes after reading money ball.
I thought that, that, you know, the treatment of, um, Billy Bean and the A's and kind of
understanding how he used this insight about a particular metric was being undervalued
by the marketplace and really changed the way folks, staff, baseball teams, um, that
was amazing.
That was fantastic.
Well, it's, and I, I'm not 100% sure how much I could talk about this, but, uh, there,
I'll, I'll just, I'll say in rough terms that there was a company that were, you know,
I knew of from when I used to play pickup basketball at Caltech, um, with, with the founder
and, um, he was working with some teams, the NBA and also with NFL and they, they, they
were looking at motion tracking data and, and actually they had algorithms that gave
teams insights like, uh, the center in the fourth quarter is going to just be horrible.
So go out of, you know, or, you know, it, it, take, this player has a horrible left hand
and so, um, basically make them go left and, and I won't, I won't say what's teams or,
I don't know if I'm supposed to say it or not.
So I'll just, I'll just leave it, but, but they're definitely are, they're definitely
are, um, they're, this is happening, um, in sports and there are people that are using
machine learning, uh, especially on like things like motion tracking data and they do have
some, some secret information that I'm sure is playing a, a role in the amount of wins
they have.
And so, you know, I think you can make an argument for teams, let's say the NBA because
I have some, a little bit of information that maybe some of the teams that, even we can
think of off the top of our head, um, that, that have a lot of wins may have some secrets
that, that, that, uh, they have algorithms that, that let them have insights that other
teams don't have.
And so there, there's a little bit of a, um, uh, a race, I guess, uh, I don't, I don't
have all the info, but, but I know a little bit.
Yeah, you've got to imagine that, uh, you know, the popularization and money ball, if
it wasn't already kind of an open secret, the data can make a difference in sports, you
know, that kind of blew the top off and, uh, now that, uh, machine learning has become
so much more accessible, um, you've got to imagine that any owner or general manager
kind of worth their salt is at least experimenting with, um, how to apply this both on the field,
on the court, as well as in terms of the business, uh, ticket sales and advertising and all
that kind of stuff.
Yeah, well, and, and so that was, that, that, that actually does lead to a, uh, other area
that I was doing a little bit of research on that again, I, I'm, you know, how, I would
love to do more research on is how is the valuation of a team set, uh, and what's interesting
is in the NBA, for example, uh, the two most valued teams are the Los Angeles Lakers
and the New York Knicks, uh, each are, we're several billion dollars.
And if you look at their, their, their, um, records, I think the lake is a little better
this year.
But if you look at their records the last few years, it's, I mean, they're, they're
very bad.
I mean, very bad.
And, and what's interesting is that attendance really doesn't seem to be affected by this
evaluate.
And, and then if you dig into it, it's, you know, what, what are the things that predict
the most, uh, valuations of a team and it, it's actually pretty boring so far as like,
you know, things like what's the meeting home price and what's the population density?
Yeah.
So my immediate market size when you mention those two teams.
Yeah.
So like if you live in a major metropolitan area with high real estate values, you're going
to have a highly, highly valued team.
And so in a way, uh, maybe, and I, I, I don't know how long, I know the clippers, for
example, I don't, I forget how long Donald's stringing on them, but they've for so long
were just a horrible team.
I mean, I mean, just one of the worst teams in the NBA, but I guess if you're just strictly
talking about, um, an investment, yet maybe it doesn't even pay, uh, in terms of valuation
to do anything because if you're in Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, you, and you're just
there, you, you will just make money and people will show up.
They have a losing suck.
So you want to try to help fly some of this stuff to try to figure out how to win.
If you're going to have to show up every day, you might as well try to win at least.
Yeah.
Well, I, I, I do wonder though if there's some teams like that are like that where they
just, they just, they, it's an investment or vanity thing and they just, I mean, like
the clippers come to mind if you, you know, if you, you, you've been a NBA fan, like, there
was a period for like 10 or 20 years, I think, where they're in Los Angeles and you're
like, how, how can you be this bad?
It's like you're trying to be this bad.
But I guess if you look at the, the clippers when they were sold, there was a, um, pretty
substantial profit.
And so, yeah, that, that, that, that's kind of another, yeah, like sports equivalent of
like a self storage facility, it's like it, yeah, this is our parking lot.
It's like, those are real estate play, it has nothing to do with, uh, actually providing
the service.
Yeah.
So, so yeah, I think, I think the, the, the more interesting part of the story, maybe
that if you look at, um, and I, and I have some, uh, in, in the talk of it, I, I showed
some 3D graphs about this.
But like if you look at some of the cheaper teams, like, uh, I don't know, Dallas or Houston,
and, and you can, you can look at those and go, you know, if you were rich enough to buy
a team, like, that's maybe where you'd want to buy a team is somewhere where they have
lots of wins, but they're, they're very, very low valued versus, if, again, if you cared
about performance, but if you just wanted to make a real estate play, then, yeah, try to
buy, buy low it in, in Los Angeles or, or New York, um, uh, so we've talked about a bunch
of, uh, ideas along these lines, uh, but I'm curious if you've got, uh, if you've got
others in mind, if you're a data scientist practicing hobbyist, whatever, and you're
also interested in sports, uh, what are some areas that you think are ripe for, you
know, experimentation and research?
What do you think folks could go in and have some fun and, and maybe, you know, make an
interesting difference?
Yeah, so I, I do have some off the top of my head. Um, in the last five years, in particular,
I've really gotten into Brazilian Jitsu and, um, got me really interested more in the
UFC, which is because of Brazilian Jitsu is a pretty big component of it. And, uh, one
of things that does seem like it's massively ripe for, uh, data scientists, hobbyist, data
scientists is the, um, machine learning around, um, things like, uh, submissions, for example.
So, you know, uh, what's really interesting is that if you just look and you plot the
submissions, uh, for the last 20 years, I think I have a project right at this. They're,
the career naked choke is number one, one, then, I don't know, it's like arm bar and, uh,
a triangle, you know, a leg triangle are, are, you know, coming next. But what's really
I think could be very interesting is, is, is the chain effective. It, is it, is a
rear naked choke, the best high percentage, um, submission because you started with that
or, or did you start with a bunch of other submissions? And so I, I think there could
be, uh, a lot of interesting things that could happen in terms of, you know, what, what,
what are the chain of submissions that someone would try, uh, and, and are there sequences,
like almost like a, a Pac-Man game. I don't know if you remember the 80s. There was, uh,
maybe I'm too old, but, um, for people to remember this, but there, there, what, I remember
when I was a little kid and, and I used to play Pac-Man. I bought this book. There was
like, how to cheat at Pac-Man. And there was literally a screen that you went through.
And then you could beat every, every screen for a while. Right. And I could, I could think,
I, I could see how in the same thing with Jiu-Jitsu out, maybe there's, there's some moves
that work in certain situations and, uh, sorry, it seems like there's, like, those at the
Konami Code, like, up, up, down, down. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. So I, I'll be very curious if,
like, if that, that's, that's one area, um, you know, another one too would, would just
be some of the really interesting statistics that have been generated. Another sports,
like baseball and NBA because they're so popular, you know, those, those things haven't really
been applied to, um, the UFC or Belator, these, these mixed martial arts forums. And so,
you know, even from a financial perspective, uh, I could imagine there could be a lot of
money made by somebody going in and, and really figuring out, you know, who is the best
player or who are the best fighters in the UFC and who are, you know, what are the best
techniques and, um, yeah, I, I think that in particular, there's a, is a, is a, is a
very interesting one. Um, I also think in terms of, um, other sports, like track and field,
I think are, are, are, are also, um, there's, there's some things that, if I was independently
wealthy, I would pursue, like, one of them is, like, what is the optimal amount of training
and what's the best periodization schedule for, let's say track athletes, like a 400 meter
runner or a 200 meter runner. And I, I, I think there's a lot of, uh, ground that can
be covered in, I guess the way I would classify it as like a, a ways for fitness where you,
you have something that's constantly telling you the right thing to do. And, and the thing
that's interesting about the human body is that there, it, it, it's, it's not a linear
relationship. Like, oh, I just exercise more and then I get better. There, there, there,
there's these really complex things that are happening. And, and that's why periodization
is, is so effective as, you know, you do, let's say, a, a really, a strength cycle in,
in, in track, for example, and then go on and during cycle. And, and so I, I think that's
a period that's a, that's a, um, an area where, where machine learning artificial intelligence
can, can play a, a really significant role. And it hasn't, to my knowledge, there, there
hasn't been a lot of traction there. Interesting. I did an interview with, uh, with
Ilka Corjonan, who is a technology VP at first beat, which is the company who, like, they
have their, their models embedded into a lot of the fitness watches, um, for like, doing
analytics on the heartbeat and the heartbeat rate, but they're, but the heartbeat interval,
uh, forget the, the name of the specific acronym. But they do, in addition to their business
where they sell these, you know, models and IP to the watchmakers, they also have this,
like pro athlete training or insight or whatever business where they will apply that data
to, like that, I think their stuff is what allows a lot of the watchmakers to now produce,
like, VO2 max and, and, um, some of these, uh, some of these other metrics off of the
heart rate data from the watches. And the VO2 max, I think, has something to do with,
like, training and rest intervals and stuff like that. Um, so if anyone wants to take on
that challenge, check out, uh, twomal talk number one, oh, six, uh, any other ideas?
You know, I think, I think the other one that's, I guess, somewhat, somewhat related is,
is just in terms of, um, nutrition as well. So my, my background, my undergraduate
degrees in nutritional science, and I still haven't let go of, of a lot of ideas that I
learned. And I, I think another one, again, is, is that I have not seen this yet as,
is machine learning around nutrition. And the closest I've seen is, there's some longitudinal
studies that came out last several years about, I think it was, there's a nurse study
that was 20 or 30 year period where they, they, they showed the predictive power of, of a food
in terms of how much weight you would have. So if you, if you eat more, um, yogurts, you
over a five year period, the more servings of yogurt, you eat the, the lower your body
weight, the more servings of, um, not to eat the lower your body weight, the more servings
of coke, uh, chips, the higher your body weight. And, and so I could see a, again, from just
athletes and just regular people that, um, you know, you could, you could basically have
something that's constantly, again, very non intuitive. And I think this is where AI
comes in. You could, you could, you could basically constantly be telling someone, you,
you can, you could actually have forecast, like, you could forecast based on what somebody's
eating, what they're going to weigh. Right. And so it's certainly not counting calories.
You're not, you're, you're literally just telling someone constantly like, yeah, here's
your, here's your forecast for a year from now based on what I, what I've seen you doing.
So if you want the forecast to go down, you know, you need to be, there's four, here's
four choices. Interesting. Interesting. That makes me think of, um, you know, it'd be cool
to have an app that like you just, and I've seen when, when we were at the peak of the
quantified self thing, I've seen versions of this, but I don't think they had the AI stuff
on the back end and access to all the center data. But an app where you just rate kind
of how you feel on, you know, a handful of dimensions, like physically, mentally, whatever,
happiness. And then it looks at your historical rating patterns, your sleep patterns from
your watch or other, you know, sensors, pillow sensors that they're selling now, all that
kind of stuff, your diet that you put into, uh, your tracking app and just tells you,
you know what, this spaghetti is going to taste really good, but you're going to be
crabby as hell tomorrow or whatever. Um, and just make some simple predictions based on
that or, you know, you're, you know, it's, it's 1130. You, you want to stay up until half
an hour to work on this project or finish this movie or something like that, but you're
going to feel like crap tomorrow. Yeah, I, I, I do think that is the future of AI and
those are the kind of things that I personally am interested in for this next decade of
my life is, is that, that AI assistant where, where it, there are things that are not
easily thought about. The brain is, there's just not good at. And I think things like health,
nutrition, sleep, all, you know, driving, all there's, there's all, there's all these things
where, where algorithms can do it better. So I, I do think that's going to actually be
a significant, uh, impact on humanity in a positive way.
Mm, mm, awesome. Uh, before I let you go, if I may, uh, you are in the final stages of
getting a book out the door, is that right? Yeah. So I, I spent about the last year working
on a book called, uh, Pragmatic AI. Um, and the premise of the book is that, that there's
a lot of AI, like, like many of the conversations we had here that, that is, is very straightforward
and practical and that it should just be done versus, uh, AI is not just self-driving cars
that are fully autonomous and addition that, uh, the cloud plays a big role in, um, in, in
getting things into production. When are you expecting that to hit the shelves?
I think it's June. So I, I'm in technical review this week. So then it goes into production. So,
yeah, I think, I think June, I believe, is when it gets on the shelves. And is it, uh, hands-on,
practical coding kind of book or, you know, this is the opportunity, landscape, higher-level
kind of book? No, super, super hands-on. So, uh, there's examples of, um, doing, you know,
for example, the social media stuff we talked about, there's, there's a whole exploration with code
on that. Um, there's, uh, how to analyze the GitHub project and figure out, you know, what's wrong
with your team. Um, and then there's solutions for AWS, um, Azure, uh, Google Cloud,
TPUs, like, so yeah, very, very, um, hands-on with code examples, mostly in Python, there's a little
bit of R and a lot of Jupyter notebooks. Okay. Oh, very cool. Uh, well, I will, uh, keep an eye out
for that. But I appreciate you taking the time to, to jump on the call and to, to chat with you.
I enjoyed, uh, enjoyed learning about what you're up to. Yeah. Thank you so much for inviting me,
and, um, I'm, uh, looking forward to listening to more of your shots. Awesome. Thanks so much, Noah.
Okay. Text you later.
All right, everyone. That's our show for today. For more information on NOAA or any of the topics
covered in this episode, head on over to twimlai.com slash talk slash 158.
To follow along with our AI and sports series, visit twimlai.com slash AI and sports.
If you're a fan of the podcast, you know, we'd like to encourage you to head on over to iTunes
or wherever you grab your podcasts and leave us a five-star rating and review. They are super
helpful as we push to grow this show and the community. As always, thanks so much for listening
and catch you next time.
