Alright everyone, I am here with Palo Martinez and Carlo Rodriguez from Clustera, live once
again from NYU Future Labs and the AI Nexus Accelerator. Guys, say hi. Hi. So let's just jump
right in and have you tell us a little bit about Clustera, what are you guys up to?
Sure, well we started as a retail analytics company like enabling Carlo and I worked
at a marketing innovation firm and we were wondering what could happen if Walmart had
the same data that Amazon has. How could they grow their businesses? And the pursuit
of that response took us to where we are now. We attract people's movements on physical
spaces based on their anonymous Wi-Fi signals and we got some traction on that space but then
we found out we realized that that wasn't like we're the value recited, right? Like just
by tracking the people, what we understood, like working with some of the major players
in the market in Mexico, such as Anhauser-Busch, Walmart and Valaris, that's a very large
airline there, is that the real value resides in delivering relevant advertising to the
users based on their behavior in the real world and that's where Clustera is now at.
So you're not no longer focused on the Wi-Fi movement element of it or is that still part
of the building block? Yeah, it's a bit of a block but instead of using the cell in
the data as a dashboard or something like that, we use that data to correlate the behavior
of the people with their profiles, the data we get and then we target those people.
Okay, and so the general idea then is to allow so-called brick and mortar retailers to
have more of the kind of give them, you know, with an online retailer, you know exactly
what the customer does from their page path as well as maybe even heat map eye tracking
that kind of stuff. And so this is trying to capture some of that same kind of insight
for the brick and mortar retailer. Yes, to capture that insight but also to activate
it. Okay, we realized that, for example, Google and Facebook, they're massive companies
which their business model resides just in one simple idea is to make advertising more
relevant to the people. I think that's why they're so big. But they are just like online
to online. The things that you do online, they get transformed into online advertising.
But no company yet has really tackled, really nailed how to take the offline behavior
of the people and translate it into online advertising, which is important because online
digital advertising is growing like two digits per year since I remember. So it's going
to get just bigger and companies need that data to better deliver their campaigns.
And so are you telling them, you're telling them with the data that you've collected,
who to target, but what else are you telling them, how to target them, where to target them,
and are you providing an advertising network or are you telling them which advertising
networks to use? Tell me a little bit more about how a customer uses what you're providing.
Sure. Well, first I'm going to give you like a glimpse of how the solution works.
Okay. And then I'm going to let Carlo like go a little bit technically deeper.
Okay. What we do is we interpret the, we hear the Wi-Fi signals of the smartphones.
Right. And they have all the audience most know that the MAC address is like the anonymous
device ID. We hear that and we can pinpoint where is that device located in a very,
very accurate way. Instead of geofencing that has a 500 meter like accuracy,
we have a 10 meter accuracy. So, so that's the first thing. Second, as people will
gathering a lot of data from the city like the Google card does, we also map out the whole city,
but the routers in the city. Okay. So we map the city literally, we like to
do it, exactly where all the Wi-Fi is for time. Okay. And commercial, all pieces of space, and also
organization. Oh, so we're not talking about movements within the store. We're talking about
movements out the world. Yeah. Above. Like inbound and outbound. Okay. Well, or outside the store,
like an urban level, like a city level, but also inside the store. Okay.
Okay. And so you are collecting all this, this database, you're basically locating the
individuals. And then what are you doing with that data? How are you aggregating it?
Well, we aggregated as analytics, as Scarlett said, dashboards. Like, so our clients can understand
when do they users arrive? How much time do they spend? How do they move inside the store?
But also as users naturally connect to Wi-Fi on certain locations, then with the opt-in,
like with the consent of the user, we can match their device IDs to their online profiles.
And in that way, we can like make the whole cycle and start delivering smart campaigns.
For example, one of our clients is a major burger chain in here in the US. And they're using
our solution for a lot of stuff. But one of the main points is to understand how people,
like their loyalty, their recency, how often do they go. And if they notice a pattern,
and that's where one of the ways that we use machine learning and AI for our product,
if we identify that the user is going to churn, like it's going to bail out for a competitor,
because we compare their behavior to a lot of past behavior from other profiles.
Then we send an aggressive campaign to that user, because we know that he is like in danger
of bailing out of the brand. And so to make that a little bit more concrete,
I'm a burger chain A customer. If I spend more time in an area that you might surmise,
I'm sitting in a burger chain B, is that an example? Or are you finding deeper patterns
that would suggest that I might be more likely to churn? Well, there are three main
like things that we look at in building the model. Okay. First is as people connect to the places,
well generally they connect to the places they go to eat, like to have food, that we can have
like a sense of the competitors. If you go to somewhere, we can know if you have connected to
some competitor. First, second, we can understand where people live and work based on their previous
Wi-Fi locations. So we can understand the socio-economical status of the person in that sense,
that it's like they comply with that. And third, we see the patterns of the visits,
just like in Google Analytics, or in any like analytics, we have an analytics suite. You can see
how often the person goes. If they go daily, if they go weekly, if they go two times a month.
And then we compare that and we see, oh, we have seen some similar behaving customers that after
bail, after not going to the burger chain in three weeks, we never see them again.
That's when we know that we have to activate some campaign. Okay. Okay, interesting.
Tell me a little bit about your backgrounds and how you arrived at this problem.
Yeah, well, as Paul mentioned before, we met at the market in agency. I was a head of innovation.
My background is at the telecommunications engineer. I was in a gig since I was a kid. I learned
to call when I was 13, just from phone. And the thing is that it put me all through this to call
this and everything. I went to Singularity University and I was being, I am a maker. I've been
drones. Okay, sure. Well, we met there and at a marketing agency, I was a BP of analytics.
And all my whole career was in the marketing and analytics space. I majored in, well,
my knowledge in marketing, but I majored in applied statistics and then I studied a master's
degree in analytical sciences. So I always like tried to solve marketing problems using analytics
and data. And Carlo asked, he is very strong with technology and sensors. It was like a perfect match
for this venture. One of the things that I'm sure you get asked a lot is around the privacy
implications of what you're doing. How do you, you know, what are the questions that you're most
asked around that? And how do you respond to those? Sure. Well, they ask us a lot of about that
because it's like a sensical topic. We know that we're not the first company to aggregate customer
behavior and activate campaigns. A lot of companies have done that before. And we know that we're
not the only company that tracks people's movements with cell phones, with cell phone signals.
But first and foremost, we know that if we that we have to put privacy at like the first of every
decision that we make, because at the end of the day, we are not interested in individual
behaviors, but on aggregated behaviors. Like that's why we're called clostera because of the
cluster analysis that we do for the people. So in terms of how the two main questions that we
get asked is this legal? And the answer is yes. We have a very solid legal framework that
like allows, for example, to gather aggregated data and make sense of it in terms of
dashboards of analytics without infraging any kind of privacy law or anything, nor in Latam or
the US. And second is, well, if it's anonymous, how do you can activate campaigns? And the answer to
that question is that when the user opts into our platform, they complied that we can use their
data to send more relevant advertising. And that's what Google and Facebook does. They take,
for example, your birthday and they send some special promotion because it's your birthday.
I don't think that any of you can like argue or be mad about it.
And so are all of the users opted in users? And what are they actually opting into? Is it
some app that you're providing or something that the customer is providing that they want to get
some value from? It's the Wi-Fi portal. And I get Wi-Fi networks. Okay. So and you guys are running
the Wi-Fi networks. So you have agreements with existing Wi-Fi networks to do this? Both, both.
Okay. Yeah, we can go and install just a sensor or like a Wi-Fi sensor. It's like a very small router.
Okay. That goes up on top of the existing Wi-Fi technology that all our clients have.
Or if there are some hotspot companies that we're partnering in Mexico, where we just
like put our platform in their existing sensors and then we can match the user profiles.
I was going to ask about this earlier and we'd moved on to something else. The degree to which
the infrastructure needs to be changed in order to support what you're doing. And it sounds like
it sounds like yes. So does that mean that in order to in order to grow you need to
like who do you have to go after these Wi-Fi portal owners basically?
What are they? But they're not the beneficiaries of analytics necessarily. That's the retailer.
So what's in it for them? How do you make them want to get engaged with you guys?
Well, first we give them the ability to better serve their clients without spending more,
like without because they give a very simple dashboard, simple analytics of the Wi-Fi.
And we tell them how if you put this code in your portal, then you will be able to give a better
product to the client that is paying you and you don't have to pay anything.
Okay. And it sounds like an interesting and complex ecosystem. So you've got the portal folks
that they maybe are their clients like Starbucks or someone that's hosting that's providing
at their location and then you guys are trying to use the data for the retailer. Well, it's more change. They already
are providing Wi-Fi to their customers. In this case, these chains, they also like we get on top of
what they have. And in this case, these chains always have contracts, maybe locations and that's
what we also have. Okay. Okay. Makes sense. So maybe a little bit more on how you're using
machine learning and AI to solve as what kinds of techniques and approaches come into play to
solve this particular problem. Well, as I mentioned before, you see that part of the analytics
is a building block towards the end product. That is the blockchain and audience. It's great,
great targeting profiles for the people. In the case of the analytics literature to measure people,
we need to identify which people is a visitor of the place and a passerby. Since from that
perspective, we need to classify those type of customers. The raw data that we get is a very
messy data because it's a lot of data that is coming from the cell phones is literally signals
from the cell phones. And we use models to classify which one is in the store, which was passing
in front of the store. And then after that, classify them in bucket like, okay, this is a new
comer is a returning visitor, et cetera, et cetera. Yeah, also to predict future behavior. We get
that asked a lot like, where is the AI and what you have because in some other companies is very
straightforward. Right. However, in ourselves, we think like 10 years ago, maybe it was or 20 years
ago, it was very hot to say you were an internet company. Sure. And now it's very hot to say we're
you're an AI company. And we think that that it's going to like, how do you say that? Like,
it's going to permeate in all companies. So maybe in one or two years, it's not going to make
sense to say that you are an AI company. Sure. Everybody is doing that. It's like you say,
I'm an electric electricity energy company now. Right. Just because you use electricity.
This is a tool. Yeah. You are in the tool business selling pickaxes. Well, you sell pickaxes.
In this case, we use the pickaxes to build stuff. Right. Right. And the folks that listen to
the podcast like to hear about what kind of pickaxes you use. And it sounds like clustering is a big
one of the big pickaxes. You want to mean you want me to get pretty technical on this? Sure.
Sure. Well, you see we have many many many branches here. First of all,
is that all the holidays come for that. Of course, we use the cloud. Otherwise, we
don't have any any any any on premiums and stuff. And then first of all, all these cloud
go through that the pipeline that is drawn on the spark. Okay. We use to classification
sees a logistic regression and a decision tree. And based on that. What was the first one?
A logistic regression. Just a regression. Got it. And a decision tree. And with that,
we get to the analytic side and the first cluster, let's say, then we get the models for the
clustering of the of the behavior of the people based on the profile and also the behavior they
have some before. Yeah, that's my favorite part because we started using like her article clustering.
But then we started pioneering with a technical, not pioneering, but using a technique called
self-organizing maps that that it like takes all the features of the of the people and like makes
like like self-organizing map. It's like a technique used more for like machine vision.
Okay. Where we're using that to to make sense of all the the information of the of the data of
the users and gather them into very more, more smart or smarter segments that if we use just plain
clustering. Okay. Oh, interesting. Yeah. Yeah. And also we have different layers of information
that we get from the people in the case of what is just analytics well is just an ID is your macadras.
The macadras doesn't say anything about you. Right. That's why we are legal because it's not
personal identifiable information. The macadras doesn't give you the names, they give you the
phone numbers, they give you the email doesn't give you anything. Just the brand of the phone.
Uh-huh. Okay. Well, how did you be having such a physical place? But in the case of the people
opting in this in the Wi-Fi spots, we ask them to put an email. Oh, in these many 90% of the cases
face to logging, social logging. Okay. And once we get the social logging, we can we can know the gender,
the beard day, the likes, what pictures do they have like before. And based on that, we can literally
create a really good profile of what about you because, okay, do I see you in a hotspot that is
in a brewery or in a coffee place? And then I see you in another city, et cetera, et cetera.
It's literally reflecting your behavior. Right. And then with those closer, with those
audiences is where the way we make business. Okay. Okay. Well, that's exciting stuff. Can you
maybe share anything else you'd like to add or maybe you can share how folks can find you and learn
more? Sure. It's well, that first that we're very thankful for the interview and we're very
excited to be in this space and in New York. I think it's a very thriving scene. And that for all
our listeners that we would like to tell them that yes, there are a lot of there's a lot of hype
in the space. And like we were marketing themselves, sorry, yes, the machine learning company,
but nobody understood that. And then when we started solving the problem using all the
pigs and tools and hammers that Carol said, that's when things started moving around. So maybe
like have this change of perspective about the AI in on startups. I think that's that's important.
And we were based in Mexico City. So we can come visit us anytime you want. And we are at
Plastera K L U S D E R A dot com. Okay, great. Great. Well, thanks for being on the show. Thank you.
