All right. Hello, everyone. I am here at NYU Future Labs talking to some of the AI Nexus batch companies. And right now, I'm here with Jeep route, who's the CEO of the whole dot AI, great to have you on the show.
Yeah, thanks for having us. So behold, that's a bold name. What are you guys up to? What problem are you going after? Sure. So our main focus is basically using some of the latest events and natural language processing to help automate and make medical billing and coding more efficient.
Okay, what is it about that problem that that lends itself to AI or what's what's the problem there? I think we all have a sense of it, but maybe you can help characterize it for us.
Absolutely. One of the biggest problems currently in medical billing is the fact that there's a high level of errors. And this is due to a variety of reasons, but one being that there's a variety of codes being used on both the billing and
trends side that have to be regularly updated. And that a lot of current builders have been around for a long time and just kind of do the nature of how medical technology is tends to be a bit slower and a bit further behind. So right now, a lot of hospitals and clinics actually end up faxing over medical records for medical
billers to actually parse them manually. So the fact that over printed out and then someone sits there and menu looks over them and types into a different computer system. And this is the way it's done mostly in 2017. So this, it's just an incredibly antiquated system.
Wow. So it's not all I envisioned. You know, everyone has epic the electronic medical record system and the insurer. There's some electronic exchange of information based on the ERM. That's not the way it's happening out there.
Yeah. So what ends up happening is that you're in your up to your right about EMR system, such as epic, certain all scripts, these major players in the space right now. The problem is that it's a kind of twofold. One is that a lot of this data siloed. Okay.
Due to a variety of laws, including HIPAA, a lot of the data is kept within data centers in the hospital and they're very reluctant to set up cloud based API systems to easily transfer the data. Okay.
And then the other problem is that a lot of medical billing companies are, they tend to be a lot of mom and pop shops that have been doing this for decades now.
But the way it's been done for the last 20, 30 years is just the way it's been done now just because sending up all the integrations, giving you all the technology working with each other is outside of the expertise and the scope of what a lot of villas have been up to you.
So what we're really trying to do is kind of just help the whole process become more efficient. Okay.
So today, most service providers outsource billing to some other like a large hospital system, would they typically have inside billing or they would also outsource it?
Sure. So a large hospital system, if it's large enough, would actually have it in house. Okay.
But mid-size or anything smaller, there's a good chance of outsource it. A big reason is just overhead and the cost.
Sure. There's a lot of specialty shops, especially a broad that that specialize in medical billing. And yet again, it's just a matter of it being just much cheaper to do.
Okay. But yet again, with that, another big problem that happens is that you just have a large number of mistakes.
There's an air wallet report saying that basically close to 50% of all Medicare claims sent through the centers of Medicare and Medicaid services actually have some sort of error.
So the area is actually extremely high. And what that means for us as patients and for payers and providers is that it's a 26% increase in total cost for healthcare.
Wow. And 20% of the of the, I mean, we all I think look at healthcare as being an area where there's a lot of inefficiencies, right?
But there are folks are estimating that 25% of that is just due to miscoating insurance claims.
Yeah. And I mean, to put that into perspective, if you're talking about a $3.2 trillion annual spend on healthcare, that's 800 billion dollars, right?
It's in things that can be reduced. That's bigger than thick market cap for Apple. That's like if it was its own country, that would be the 16th largest economy of the world.
So this is just a massive problem.
Wow. Well, I normally ask why, what made you want to go after this problem? But it's kind of obvious.
But how did you personally get to to this problem and what were you doing before?
Sure. So when we started off our company, we were actually more focused on computer vision within the medical space.
So that's why part of the behold name comes from the vision part of that.
One of the more difficult at least that we ran across was we actually built out a platform that can help analyze medical images and help
detect abnormalities in areas and help even triage images for radiologists to look at ophthalmologists to look at.
So one of the problems we came across there was in our process was not even the technical problem of this.
It's doable, but more of the kind of go to market and getting in everywhere, getting integrations and getting the right off from sea level radiologists and the IT.
So it's a very drawn out process. And then we started thinking about other applications of using computer vision and one thing that we came across was the fact that there's this very archaic process right now.
So even one of the first things that we started doing was using some existing optical character recognition technologies to convert the faxes into digital form.
So one of the first things that has to happen is that when the faxes get sent over, the coders have to literally retype in the information,
which isn't extremely inefficient use of their time. So even little things like that right off the bat can help really speed up this process.
It's amazing how technology moves 20 years ago people were talking about all of the you know the fact stuff going away to EDI and APIs and stuff like that.
And now you're you're telling us that basically faxes the universal API for insurance billing and you actually have to do something to to make that intelligible.
So you you have all these fax images you allow someone to or you allow the like who actually who's your customer, the provider, the payer.
Where are you in this? So currently the model we have right now is the provider via being that they are the ones who directly just need the service done.
So what we do on our side is we can take the fax over records, we can digitize them and we can sort of process them.
We still have a human who looks them over and makes sure that everything's good.
But what this is what's good about this is over time and then we actually have that submitted to a claim for a claims gateway for a payer.
Okay. What's really useful about this is that we'll actually get the feedback on this.
So this is where this becomes really important for training our model where this active feedback loop will actually help her come algorithms get really good at this over time.
So our biggest thing right now is that can we parse you something quickly and then just a regular bill or can just look at it and we can generate these codes automatically and then they can just right out just agree agree with the codes right away.
So they can say this is correct. This is incorrect. They can still adjust it after the fact.
Okay. But still this provides a huge level of efficiency increase over the current system right now.
Got it. And so you guys are essentially the provider would choose you guys in place of whoever their current coder is and you would essentially code for them with the option of later on kind of doing the whole end to end billing.
Yeah, exactly. So you could say kind of Uber for insurance coding. Hopefully you don't use that technology. Yeah, maybe Uber maybe a lift.
Yeah. But yeah, I mean that's kind of the idea right now is the fact that right away we can make it efficient just by cutting down on the inefficiencies of more case technologies.
But over time, I want to actually these models to end up we can actually make it not only much faster but much more efficient in terms of reducing error rates and actually helping providers.
Just take in more money and making sure also even for patients because what ends up happening is that that excess cost like you or I cannot look at a billing sheet and decipher it very well understand what's happening on it.
Right. It's it's also going to be beneficial to all patients. Right, right. Use that provider.
So you brought some vision technology over from the the original idea behind behold, which helped you understand, you know, what was on the facts.
But then you probably needed some NLP and other technologies to actually interpret the facts. Can you talk a little bit about what you're doing there?
Sure. So for the so the basic kind of we were using neural networks for the computer vision part for where we had images trained out with these labels and then over time.
The computer could actually discern between different labels on images completely on its own.
Okay. So for the when we're dealing with a medical billing, it's a little bit different where one of the first things we're doing is reading a form.
So a lot of these what ends up happening is that a lot of these forms of predefined. So there it's actually a little bit simpler just using optical character recognition.
Where it becomes more interesting is for the OCR, once you actually have the medical record or the procedure record or the procedure notes, that's actually where the NLP comes into play.
And that's where we're using a variety of methods, both, you know, we'll have names of procedures and in a database.
We actually map out what we think procedures are from those medical notes, generate what's called the ICD 10 or nine code, which is basically a disease code used internationally, which correlate to ACPT code, which are the reimbursement codes for payers.
So the idea of being that once we generate the disease code, we can generate the billing code and then pass it on to claims.
So we can just improve that whole pipeline there is using the natural average processing. Is there any AI? So is there a one-to-one mapping between diseases and claim codes or is there some intelligence that has to be applied there as well.
Sure. There it's not necessarily one-to-one, but what ends up happening is that you can have one disease code that has a variety of different billing codes, because for example, you could have one disease code that requires a variety of different procedures done.
So it's not using this kind of deterministic. Exactly. You're trying to figure anything out there.
Right, right. So the biggest thing honestly is going from, here's some text, here's some short form notes, converting that to the disease code, and that's where the biggest advantage comes in.
And are those short form notes, are we still dealing with handwriting at this point, or is it all type text on a fax?
Sure. With the ACA, a lot of doctors actually have to type a digital note. So digital is required. So the good thing is that while there are faxes involved, none of, for the most part, there's no handwriting here, which is really good, or at least beyond that point.
Yeah. Interesting. So what have you learned in the process from a technology perspective, or what have you found? What surprised you, once you made this pivot to going after the healthcare space, or the insurance billing space, from a technology perspective?
Sure. One of the more interesting things is that, as you mentioned with Epic and the other EMR systems is kind of how the fact that
it's interesting that a lot of them don't receive a cloud-based platform. There are a couple, but for the most part, almost everything tends to be locally stored on hospital servers.
And kind of communication between the two. So there's a standard called HL7, which is the way that EMRs can universally communicate with each other.
For the most part, I mean, especially as a patient, I think one of the two things, first of all, that the data, you can think that we own the data, we don't, it's kind of this gray area.
Data only just actually partially, it's still mostly on the hospital, hospital-only data, all of our medical data. The other thing being that just communication between these systems is very complex, not from a technical standpoint, but for more of the integration standpoint, making sure all these things communicate with each other, but that ability to communicate the transparency is actually highly effective because there could be a lot of times when let's say you go to a different clinic or you move, it's very difficult to actually send over your medical records.
So what will end up happening is the fact that your eye could easily go in for procedure and get more tests done, redone, even though you have the record elsewhere.
So just, to me, I think just uncovering more and more of the inefficiencies within medicine itself that would seem like they'd be pretty solvable given today's more common technologies.
And as five years ago or so, there was, it's probably due to the ACA, there was a big move towards these HIEs, health care information exchanges. Is that still happening or is that all kind of stalled out?
It's still going on, but it's just such a long procedure. And I think, over time, it'll have to be realized mostly because as we go forward with medicine, a lot of, especially CMSs,
we can get more repayments based on population health statistics and outcomes versus fee for service.
So as we move more towards that model, these health information exchanges are incredibly important because otherwise, we're not really sure what data we're looking at.
And more than anything, we need to be more cognizant or the health care system needs to be more cognizant about what they're repaying and what they're doing.
So we can really cut down in class because ultimately over time, the way that we're doing it is just not sustainable from the US economy.
Right. Well, if you weren't going after the insurance market, what are a few other opportunities for applying machine learning in AI and health care that you've come across?
There's a lot of more simple things, even just optimizing for, there's been companies that have been really amazing things, which are just things like optimizing for lighting, optimizing for lighting.
Yeah, it sounds kind of like, you know, it sounds a little bit weird, but even like the lighting on the move the patients have adjusting for that intelligently, even just like use of space, use of, you know, there's a lot of ways to optimize many of the kind of inefficiencies that hospitals have today.
I think right away we go to this kind of really, you know, really technologically deep, like deep, like deep learning using like latest AI stuff, but honestly, a lot of the inefficiencies of hospitals are just simple things that could just be.
We've done more intelligently. Well, great. I've really enjoyed this conversation. Anything else you'd like to mention about what you guys are up to?
Yeah, I mean, for us right now, one of our biggest goals is we're working on a pilot with a cardiology clinic out of Nevada, and then down the road, one of our biggest things, you know, trying to scale this out is to go to a variety of different hospitals and clinics working with a variety of different data sets, because one of the things that'll be most valuable will be how robust we can make our algorithms and how they can work on a variety of systems.
So we'll look forward to the challenges and see what lies ahead. Great. And where can folks learn more?
Sure. So if you go to our website, behold, b-e-h-o-l-d, dot-a-i dot com. We've a bit about what we're doing, a bit of the, you know, the basic overview of technologies, as well as some things about our team and kind of updates, and what we'll be doing in the future.
Okay, great. Well, thanks so much, G. Yeah, thanks a lot. Great job. Great talking with you.
