Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
Today we're joined by Yas fund of S. Tyson, PhD student in engineering at Cambridge University.
Yas' research focuses on applying LSTMs or long short-term memory neural networks to biological
data for various tasks.
In our conversation we discuss his paper, The Unreasonable Effectiveness of the Forgetgate,
in which he explores the various gates that make up an LSTM module and the general impact
of getting rid of gates on the computational intensity of training the networks.
Yas eventually determines that leaving only the Forgetgate results in a quote unquote
unreasonably effective network and we discuss why.
He also gives us some great LSTM-related resources, including references to you against Schmidhuber,
whose research group invented the LSTM and who I spoke to back in Twimble Talk No. 44.
Before we get to the episode, I'd like to join Pegasystems, this episode's sponsor,
and inviting you to meet me at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, June 2nd through 5th at Pegaworld,
the company's annual digital transformation conference.
Pegasystems puts AI in the center of its customer engagement software so that it optimizes
every customer test point on every channel in real time.
That way each interaction is relevant and timely to each individual customer, no matter if
it's a sales call, a digital marketing campaign, or a customer service chat either online
or in store.
And the system is always learning in real time to make the next interaction better.
Pegas Customers are the real stars at Pegaworld, there you'll hear great stories of AI applied
to the customer experience at real Pegas Customers.
The event is a great way to learn from a who's who of the Fortune 500, and of course I'll
be there in speaking as well.
To register, visit Pegaworld.com and use the promo code Twimble19 when you sign up for
$200 off.
Again, that's Twimble19, it's as easy as that.
Hope to see you there.
And now on to the show.
Alright everyone, I am on the line with Yas Fundovesthizen.
Yas is completing his PhD in engineering at Cambridge University.
Yas, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Thank you Sam.
So we were joking earlier, you're kind of in this weird intermediary state, intermediate
state between having finished all of the requirements for your PhD and kind of waiting to get the
actual degree conferred.
Tell us a little bit about your background and what you studied at Cambridge.
Yeah, so in all honesty, I fell into the machine learning field a bit by accident.
And I think this story is kind of true for a lot of people with the big current hype.
So where it all started is I started with biomedical engineering undergrad, I'm South African,
and I studied at Statenbach University over there.
And straight out of the undergrad, I realized that I still want to learn a bit more.
So I started the masters in like effectively computational neuroscience.
And this is where I really had like my first little experience with machine learning.
We played with like basic models, like linear discriminant analysis and like self organizing
maps.
And actually like halfway through the masters, I was accepted at Cambridge and actually
Oxford and like received scholarships for both.
So I was quite happy.
And I decided to stop the masters to go start a PhD at Cambridge.
And my initial like plan was to do I was I think a bit ambitious, but my initial plan
was to.
I wanted to effectively create like a wristwatch that could like measure anything about your
body, like kind of look at detail at your blood.
And like tell you, for example, to like today you have to eat a banana, otherwise tomorrow
you're going to get a heart attack that kind of that level of accuracy.
So kind of like a tricorder prize type of device?
Yeah, yeah, pretty much.
And then my supervisor at the time told me like, oh well, there's a range of problems
that you have to solve to get to this end product.
And she said one of the like most fundamental ones is probably like analyzing these signals
and making predictions.
So I kind of started, yeah, I guess looking at ways of like analyzing these signals and
making predictions and just speaking around in a really awesome lab, I heard about like
these temporal machine learning techniques that could easily solve this problem.
And that's kind of where I started playing with them.
And like I played with theater market models, which is like a more conventional technique
and also with some of the new deep learning techniques like recurrent neural networks.
And I guess after seeing my first few lines of like of gradient descent happening, I completely
fell in love with deep learning and that's that's where it all kicked off, yeah.
Have you been seeking to apply what you've been learning about machine learning and deep
learning back to these biomedical applications or have you totally dived into the more theoretical
side of ML and deep learning?
Yeah, so that's a really good question actually.
So this started my PhD was very lean heavily towards biological applications.
And I guess my whole thesis has this whole theme as well.
But pretty early on we realized that well my supervisor and I realized that it's a very
like tough field with a lot of red tape and it's hard to get data, it's hard to get anything
implemented.
There's a lot of like bureaucracy in some areas.
And I didn't like to like struggle with this during my PhD.
So I think halfway through we decided that it might be good to kind of slightly pivot
towards a more theoretical kind of thesis.
So it has like both aspects.
But I feel like I have a strong opinion that like it's the biological field because it has
all these barriers.
We need to like put a lot more effort into it.
So I'm quite happy that I could kind of put a lot more effort into that kind of side.
Yeah.
And you mentioned that you're planning to start a company.
Is it based on the work that you've done at Cambridge?
So not really.
It's it's based on Cambridge in a way because what I had to because I'm from South Africa,
what I had to do quite often in Cambridge is do like a Skype call back home or a WhatsApp
call or all of these internet-based calls.
And like after the PhD, well, I guess like even before the PhD, I knew I wanted to try
and start a company.
And having like I'm sure you and a lot of other people have experienced the like the
poor quality in any internet-based call like Skype or a WhatsApp voice call.
And essentially I thought well why don't we just try and fix this like machine learning
currently has has achieved remarkable things in terms of generating super-resolution images
and like doing video interpolation.
So essentially that's kind of how how my colleague and I started out with the new idea that
we're trying to pursue.
You're not calling a pie-piper are you?
I'm glad you made that connection.
That's probably a good thing.
One of the papers that came out of your PhD is called the unreasonable effectiveness of
the forget gate.
How did that work come about?
Yeah.
So well, maybe I'll just quickly say where the name came from.
I have to give homage to André Carpathy, who he had a blog post called the unreasonable
effectiveness of RNNs, Ricardo Networks.
And I think a lot of people really love this blog post and I also love it.
I read it.
So that's kind of where the name inspiration came from.
But to to jump back to the question, essentially in the the final parts of my PhD, I started
working a bit like I looked at two things at the same time.
One was this biological application that we had, which was to essentially infer from peripheral
neural signals what an agent or what a human or some animal is doing based on those signals.
And essentially if you want to create a prosthetic device that can like in real time react to these
neural signals, it has to be very low powered and very resource efficient.
So we'd already had a solution that could infer what the human is doing based on those
signals.
But now we needed to make it much more computationally efficient.
So that was like the one driver.
The second or the thing I was working on in parallel was I looked at initialization techniques
for in general kind of, I guess neural networks or deep learning models, but also specific
more specifically for LSTMs or the long short term memory recurrent neural network.
And I guess I played around with various approaches to initialization for LSTMs and with ways
of like I guess quantizing them or pruning them or making them more efficient.
And then I happened to stumble upon this architecture that I've explained in the paper, which
essentially did like, first of all, we were surprised, okay, it kind of saves computation.
But then yeah, we were really surprised when it did a lot better than the original LSTM.
So yeah.
Interesting.
And before we get too far, I should probably note because there's somebody that's jumping
up out of their chair on the on the bar or something like that, that the whole unreasonable
effectiveness thing dates back before Carpathy to a guy Eugene Wigner who wrote a paper,
the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics and the natural sciences back in 1959.
But we were joking a little bit before we started the interview that I noted that I've
gone through the math of RNNs several times and it's not quite intuitive to me.
You mentioned that you have the same experience having studied it for your degree as well.
Maybe a good place to start is to talk about the, or LSTMs in particular, the role of
gates in LSTMs?
Yeah, yeah.
So I guess I could give a little history of how it all developed.
Essentially recurrent neural networks were designed because they share parameters across
this time dimension.
So it makes them a lot more efficient.
Kind of like the same way that convolutional neural networks share parameters across the
spatial dimension, the 2D spatial dimension.
But one problem you run into with recurrent neural networks is that because you're kind
of over time you're multiplying the same weights or the same information with each other the
whole time, you run into, you usually run into gradient problems.
And back in, I think it's 97, Hawthorite Renshmit Hoover realized that, okay, I guess they
approach it from a slightly different direction, but they thought that, or argue that you have,
when you do back propagation, you have through a recurrent neural network.
Some of the, like if you, if you want to remember something and you want to forget something
of the input sequence, there's kind of conflicting updates through the same edges.
So they thought or proposed that if you use an input and output gate, this could kind
of solve that conflict and kind of protect, so in there are an answer, it could kind of
protect the cell or the memory from these conflicting updates.
And that's worked pretty well.
And then I think a few years later, it was Gares in 2000 who, he realized that this works
well, but you can have, if the memory cell of the RNN or the, like, I guess the state doesn't
have a mechanism of forgetting some of the information, there's a possibility that it could
grow indefinitely and kind of break down the network.
So he proposed a forget gate, and this would then allow the cell to kind of forget some
of the information over time.
And that's kind of the LSTM that we know today.
That's kind of how the gates help the LSTM to prevent these gradient problems during training.
Got it.
So forget gate is part of the typical LSTM that is commonly in use nowadays.
Yes.
So the typical LSTM has three gates, the input gate, which controls how much information
is input at each time step.
The output gate, which controls how much information is output to the next cell or to your output
layer at each time step.
And then the forget gate, which essentially just says, how much should I forget at each
time, time step?
I'm trying to get that kind of your observations about the forget gate and what kind of caused
you to start looking at that as an interesting part of this approach.
In 2015, there were two papers that kind of at the same time said, or concluded that the
forget gate is the most important part of the LSTM.
They did like these ablation studies that removed the few gates at a time and they kind
of found that every time you remove the forget gate, like the performance just drops drastically.
And this was, I think, just aphowitz and a graph.
And essentially, that was kind of my starting point.
I realized, like, okay, let's, if they say it's this important, let's remove everything
we can and just keep the forget gate and see where we go from there.
And that was kind of, that was, yeah, it had decent performance.
But like on a typical data set called MNIST, that I think everyone knows this pretty well
now.
If you kind of, if you process that in scanline order, you get many subsections that are
like have 10 or 20 consecutive zeros.
And essentially, this makes it super hard for the network if it's only forget gate to
remember anything by the end of those zero, like 10 or 20 zeros.
So that's where I had to like, I realized, okay, we need to kind of initialize this better
to be able to kind of retain memory over those periods of zero.
You know, I guess what's interesting about this is that it's counterintuitive.
So you use the forget gate and the memory, but not the input and output gates.
And found that you had this performance improvement.
Yeah, yeah.
So essentially, I saw this example recently.
So if you like take an image and you want to classify what's in it, essentially what
like a network or what you can visualize it as is like, you remove every single element
of that image except the part that you care about.
For instance, if it's a panda, you remove like all the buildings, branches and like trees
behind it.
And you just have to the panda face or something.
So essentially like that could be summarized as to learn something, you just need to know
what you need to forget.
And I guess like that's kind of kind of in a way what happens here, but it's not completely
true because we have only one gate, which is the forget gate, but this gate at the moment
or in the new network controls both how much information is forgotten and also how much
new information comes in.
So it's kind of it's coupled with this gate just like performing both of those roles.
Is that observation that learning is primarily about forgetting at odds with the emphasis
on attention-based methods that are, you seem less about forgetting and more about trying
to figure out what to remember?
I think it's all just semantics in a way, it's just how you phrase or perceive it, yeah.
So it could be either way and I think attention mechanisms could also be said as like, oh
well attention mechanisms, just make sure that you kind of forget about the rest and focus
on something that's like relevant.
So it's just how you perceive it, I guess.
I'm curious, have you tried applying them in concert with one another, you know, I'm
thinking of forgetting all the way down?
All right.
No, I haven't.
So you mean like applying this new network with attention mechanisms?
Right.
No, I haven't tried that, but that's a pretty cool idea.
Based on this, you were inspired to create another network architecture called Janet.
Yeah.
What is Janet about?
So Janet is essentially the network that we've been discussing now.
Okay.
Yeah.
So the Janet is just the name I gave for this new, I guess, way of processing information
or this, I guess, simplified version of the Alistair.
We chose the name kind of in a lab meeting.
I don't know if I'm allowed to say this, but I'll try.
Essentially, I don't think that this is like a network that is the best.
And because people make so many new networks every day, it's just like, this is just another
one of those.
So it's just another network in that sense.
But it happened to also be a nice little acronym for Yosses Awesome Network.
So we kind of have this little lab joke about it, but yeah.
Okay.
I think what threw me off in thinking that it was a different network was the pictures
that I've seen of it still have these other gates in them, or at least what I look like
to me, these other gates, am I reading those pictures incorrectly?
What pictures have you seen?
So, yeah.
So the gates in the Janet are essentially, it's just one gate, which is the forget gate
of the Alistair.
So it's like, the Janet is just the LSTM with every thing I move except for the forget
gate.
So your paper was kind of presenting an analysis of this network and its performance on MNIST
and potentially other data sets?
Yeah.
So I guess we, there are a few papers who like that bring up new types of recurrent neural
networks.
This memory problem, or I guess both the memory problem over very long sequences and the
problem of exploding and vanishing gradients is quite a, quite a big problem.
So you have quite a few of these papers that just kind of have these benchmark memory tests.
And that's kind of what we try to follow over here.
So one of them is MNIST, which has this hard problem, as I mentioned before, of like consecutive
zeros.
Then there's perturbed MNIST, which we also tested on, which essentially just does a random
permutation of all the pixels in the MNIST image.
And this kind of creates longer dependencies over time if you process this in scanline order.
And then there are a few others.
The two we test is the ad and the copy task.
And essentially it's just for the ad task, it's two sequences where one is zeros and ones.
And the other one is continuous values.
And wherever you have ones in the binary sequence, you need to add those corresponding numbers
in the continuous valued sequence.
So it's like it kind of tests the memory of this network.
And then the same for the copy task just needs to remember everything at the start of the
sequence all the way to the end and be able to regenerate that at the end.
So yeah, and then obviously we've tested it on a few other datasets since then.
For the paper, we also tested it on one of my biological datasets called MIT, B-I-H,
arrhythmia dataset, which is like a dataset of ECG heartbeats that are classified into
five different types of heartbeats arrhythmias.
And it worked better on that dataset as well.
And when you say better relative to whatever the state of the art is on these datasets or
relative to vanilla LSTMs.
So for the dataset, I mean the MIT, the ECG dataset, there aren't that many, I guess, state
of the art results.
So we just compared it to the LSTM and it does better than the LSTM.
On the other datasets, it's kind of, it's harder to say.
So in all cases, the Janet does better than the LSTM on those datasets.
But then there are like different, I guess, models that do even better than the Janet.
So like the wave net does, I'm sure you're familiar with there.
Yeah, the wave net is a new, very good model by DeepMind.
And that model does quite well on perturbed MNIST, but then does slightly worse than Janet
on the normal MNIST.
And yeah, you have quite a few of the similar nuances for other models that have also been
proposed.
What was the role of the way you initialized the network in the results you saw?
For the Janet to work on datasets like MNIST, you have to initialize it using this
Corona initialization scheme that we proposed in the paper.
But the initialization scheme was initially proposed by Talek and Oliver.
It's also a really, really cool paper in 2018, published that I clear.
But so if you don't use that initialization scheme for MNIST, it would, like, the Janet
wouldn't learn anything.
You would kind of have this accuracy around 5% throughout training for, and then for
tasks that are slightly easier to learn that don't have, like, long consecutive periods
of zero, the Janet, like, can still learn, but it definitely does a lot better if you
use this initialization scheme.
For the LSTM, you also get some benefits, I guess, like, more stability during training
if you use Corona initialization, but the benefits aren't as clear as it is for the Janet.
And how does the initialization scheme work?
Yeah, so essentially, what Talek and Oliver found was that.
If you, or the, I guess, the characteristic for getting time of the RNN is, sorry, of
the LSTM, is one over the Forgetgate value.
So at the start, if you're, if we initialize it according to the way we always initialize
for Getgate, you essentially have a really small value for the Forgetgate or relatively
small value.
This means that you're forgetting the amount of time steps you can go through before you
forget everything that you, that you saw before it is, like, is limited to probably four
or five time steps.
And this is problematic if you have, if you need to kind of retain memory over longer periods.
And they kind of said, well, okay, we can, we can be smarter about how we initialize the
Forgetgate, well, all the Gates, in fact, and that is essentially to, like, at the start
of training, the values that matter a lot for, for the LSTM is the, the biases.
And initially, or traditionally, we've always just initialize them to be zero.
But Talek and Oliver kind of said, we should initialize them as the log of a uniform distribution
between one and the maximum number of time steps we have.
And that kind of gives you that, make sure that some of the Forgetgate kind of allow
the network to remember very long periods up to the end of the sequence.
And some of them are still, like, short term kind of cells, which kind of can't forget
at every second or third step.
What's the intuition for why this specific kind, well, first of all, did you try other initialization
schemes with Janet?
And if so, and there was kind of a binary, you know, work didn't work kind of situation.
What's your intuition for why this one, you know, performed, whereas others didn't?
Yeah.
So I did, I did try a few other initialization schemes.
I'm sure I've forgotten a few of them as well, because this was kind of, you're done quite
a while ago.
But the, like, one of the things I tried quite a lot is, or I saw from, I saw from
Alchreiter and Schmidt Hooper that they tried this thing in 97 as well, which they just,
they randomly guess some of the initial parameters between, like, certain values.
And if you do that enough, you can actually get a network that does as well as a trained
one without actually ever training it, you just initialize it to this perfect, like, network.
I tried something similar where I would, I know kind of what our current initialization
schemes are, and I would kind of guess random parameters in those ranges and see, kind
of, if this kind of yields any better networks that you can then train from or, like, improve
from.
But this unfortunately didn't work or it gave the same results or, like, the same performance
as you would get with the normal other steam initialization.
And then beyond that, I, yeah, I don't think I can't remember anything else I tried.
And how did you contextualize this within the sphere of biological applications for your
thesis?
Yeah, so I think I mentioned before that we were like, we were searching for a variant
of the LSTM that is computationally more efficient than just the normal one.
So there are various ways you can do this.
Some of them are, like, it's called pruning, which I, it comes from way back.
And another one is quantization, where essentially you just, you kind of quantize the weights to
be kind of, yeah, certain values that don't take up too much memory and computation.
And then I guess, like, I was kind of impressed by the gated recurrent unit, which is like
another version of recurrent neural networks, which only used two gates instead of the three
that the LSTM uses.
So I was like, oh, can we do, can we do one better than the GRU?
And we just have one gate and still do as well.
So yeah.
And then sorry, I just remembered something from the previous question, which is in terms
of an initialization, one thing that I kind of found at the end was when we started using
more units in the layers of the Janet and the LSTM, we found that the Janet kind of, instead
of just doing better at the end, it kind of also learned a lot quicker.
So it would get to the highest point of accuracy a lot quicker than a word with less units,
which is kind of, yeah, that makes sense.
But then I thought like a really cool thing we can try is to play around with this as
in like, it's kind of, if you have a really big Janet, you can kind of just guess the right
solution or very close to the right solution from the start and then remove a lot of units
to say compensation and then just train the rest to kind of give you that perfect model.
So that's something in terms of an initialization that I think is also worth pursuing.
Is that a potential future direction or did you get specific results with that?
That's a potential future direction.
I have, yeah, I've been slightly busy with other things since then, but that's something
I want to play with.
Got it.
What's the, in general, the impact of getting rid of the other gates on the computational
intensity of training one of these networks?
In terms of like computational time, it doesn't improve things that much.
And also I guess in just the feed forward processing time during testing, because a lot of
your like computational time is limited by the sequential nature of the LSTM, which in
the case of the LSTM and the Janet are essentially the same, because you need to like process
things at every time step.
But the part where it does save, which also saves on I guess battery usage if this is a device
that's to be used in a portable device, sorry, a model to be used in a portable device.
Then having using less memory is quite helpful.
So the Janet uses half the memory that the LSTM uses and kind of gets better accuracies
for the datasets that we tested on, which is quite good.
And that also meant that we could train much bigger Janet's on the same GPU, whereas
for an LSTM, you would quickly run out of memory on the GPU.
Did you look at the same memory and compute and power implications from an inference perspective
with the train Janet model?
Is there any difference there?
No, so yeah, so I'm like, it's the same on that side.
So for both like training a model and for doing inference, I guess it saves half the parameters
and computational time is roughly the same.
It's slightly shorter for the Janet, but nothing significant.
You noted that you, you know, that compared to WaveNet this, you know, this underperforms.
But is there a place for it within the domain of general purpose mobile network?
So is it, you know, do you, are there other reasons why it's kind of a research experiment
and not necessarily practical?
It's hard to say off the bat.
I think, yeah, I don't know, this, I guess at the time very much trapped in this very
research focused, I guess, domain.
I think like it's not the ultimate best solution that there is yet.
I think it's just, it was kind of interesting to show that kind of, this is how much importance
the forget gate has in this network.
It's kind of interesting to see.
I think there, yeah, for each specific problem, you would have to have a specific like network
and a specific solution that's best suited for that problem.
There are some where the Janet could be, could be that.
I think specifically in like anything where you have very long term memory requirements
and only a single output at the end.
We kind of have that requirement plus a, I guess, a resource efficiency requirement.
So yeah, I think like the wave net is quite like, it's quite a large network in terms
of number of layers, but it uses very little parameters.
So yeah, there are pros and cons in both.
Are there specific examples that come to mind of scenarios where you'd have this, you
know, long sequence in time with a single output?
Yeah, so I guess like a lot of biological signals have that feature.
So like, if you have, if you're measuring a heartbeat for a few seconds, that's quite
a lot of time steps that you have to analyze and then you kind of have to make a single
prediction at the end of all those time steps.
So that's like a typical scenario where you would have a really long signal with a single
output at the end.
An example where it's not that like that is, for instance, when you're generating, when
you're doing like translation, you have to generate the, or yeah, maybe just, I guess,
sentence generation.
You have to generate a word at each time step or you have to classify it's part of speech
at each time step.
That's kind of not a very long term dependency, or yeah, a long term dependency with a single
output because you're outputting something at each time step.
Okay, cool, you mentioned in our conversation a couple of things that you'd like to play
with in the future.
Are there areas that you would like to see someone continue working on beyond the ones
we've discussed?
No, I think I mentioned all of them.
I think just applying this to more datasets, specifically datasets with long term dependencies
and a single output at the end, that's cool.
So if anyone can get more types of data than are like that, I think that would be really
interesting to see.
And then obviously also like playing around with this new initialization feature where
you can kind of almost, in the first instance, guess the correct, well, very close to the
correct network and then just do a few more steps of training to get there, like a K-shop
learning approach.
I think those would be interesting to see.
Cool, interesting.
Well, thanks for taking the time to chat with me about this.
Cool stuff.
Anytime.
Thank you.
All right, everyone, that's our show for today.
For more information on Yoss or any of the topics covered in this episode, visit twomelai.com
slash talk slash 240.
As always, thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
