Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host, Sam Charrington, Hey everyone, we are quickly closing on on the event we've
all been waiting for, Twimblecon AI platforms, now just under a month away.
We have seen plenty of folks take advantage of our early registration discount.
And if you've been planning to do so, but summer or procrastination got the best of you,
are running out of time, early registration for Twimblecon ends this Friday, which means
ticket prices jump from 5.99 to 7.49 once the weekend starts.
Don't miss out on the opportunity to save $150 on your registration and whatever you do,
don't miss the opportunity to join us at Twimblecon to learn, share and connect with your
peers working to automate, accelerate, and scale machine learning and deep learning in
your organizations.
Visit twimblecon.com slash register to register and if you have any questions about the event,
we'll be available right there via chat to answer them for you.
Hope to see you soon.
All right everyone, I am on the line with Lata Branson, Lata is a scientific researcher
at Sci Sports, Lata welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Well, thank you, I'm happy to be here. Yeah, I'm really looking forward to chatting
with you.
You are in the enviable position of having combined a couple of your life's passions.
You've been playing soccer since the age of five and now you get to study it and apply
machine learning to the analysis of that sport and others as well, or are you primarily
focused on soccer right now?
I'm just focused on soccer right now.
Yeah.
So how did this all come to be?
Well, as you already mentioned, I played soccer my whole my life and I did a bachelor's
in mathematics and while I was studying, I found out of this company called Sci Sports
that was using, was combining mathematics and soccer to get insights in what players
clubs should buy.
So then I contacted the company and the company back then was just run by three students
and just the beginning of the company, around five years ago and I kept in contact.
I worked there like one day a week and then I started doing my master's in econometrics
and at the end of my master's I could work at the company as a scientific researcher.
So that's how it all started.
And the company's based in Amsterdam?
It's based in, oh, it started and it's today, it's like in the east of the country.
Okay.
It's a very small country so that's around two hours from Amsterdam.
Okay.
And we also have an office in Amesford right now that is like in the middle of Netherlands.
And from the time you started working there when it was just that three students, it's
grown to what now?
To around 50 people right now.
So just six years, big growth.
Talk a little bit about before we dive into the specific paper that we'll be speaking
about.
Talk a little bit about kind of your general area of research there.
Yeah.
So we are at Seismort.
We help multiple different clients but our main focus is on the recruitment part for
Clubs.
So actually, Clubs want to find new players for their teams and that's where we help.
And in our team, our data analytics team, we built our new models, mainly using machine
learning to get insights from this data that we get.
And that's how we, what we hope to Clubs.
And we have like an online platform where while our clients can find around $19,000,
$90,000 players from all over the world and can find their strengths and weaknesses.
And well, that's how that helped them.
Okay.
What are some of the main data sources that you have access to for the various analytics
that you do?
Yeah.
We got access to match event data as it is called.
We get us from our partner, Wisecout.
And this data that is like many of the annotated, like for every action that occurs on the pitch.
So in the past, it rippled across.
So annotated, which player performs this action from where to where, or what time in the match.
And that's the kind of data that we deal with daily.
Okay. And so the data is kind of a set of time series events or, yeah, it is, yeah.
Okay. And are there other data source providers that are doing things with more imagery or
video-based data, or is that not prevalent in soccer yet?
It is.
We have a part of our company is working on that.
We have a special team called the Bo James team.
And they are working on the scammer system, which currently hangs in three stadiums.
And that is like using this computer vision to attract the players and the ball at each
moment, each time in the game.
So that's also what we're doing.
So we're also collecting data with my team is primarily focused on event data for the
clubs, because, well, two scout players, you have to know a lot about all these players
around the world.
And this video data is not yet provided for a lot of leaks.
So that's why makes sense, makes sense.
So the paper that we are going to dig into is one that you presented earlier this year
at the Sloan Sports Analytics conference is called choke or shine, quantifying soccer
players' ability to perform under mental pressure.
Tell us a little bit about the motivations for this paper.
Yeah, so, well, it's about quantifying what it says, the stroke and place abilities to
perform under mental pressure.
And what we actually want to do is, well, we saw there's a lot of research in stroke
or analytics, current leads, it's growing fastly, but there's never any research quantitatively
done about how players perform under mental pressure.
And I've also, as a soccer player myself, I also feel this pressure sometimes, so it's
actually how we came well with this topic.
Yeah, so we wanted to measure the performance of these players when the pressure is getting
high.
So we had to access to the data for this, and that's actually how we start this research
and we did a collaboration with two people from the KL over, Peter and Jesse, and another
colleague of mine, Jan, we did this research.
And is applying some kind of machine learning or analytics to mental pressure?
Is that something that you've seen done in other fields?
Is it, you know, prevalent in some other fields?
And it's something you're trying to bring to soccer or is it something that we don't
really do a lot of now in sports?
It has been investigated in some other sports, but not extensively yet.
So I think it's still a field that needs to be investigated more.
We also want to do more in a research of this.
And we've spoken to quite some mental coaches that work at different clubs, and they always
tell us that they have like, it's hard for them to show like the improvement of certain
players on certain aspects of the mental game.
And I think, well, in soccer, it's well in all sports, it's very important that the
mentality is correct.
So you can perform on a mental pressure because that's when the points are being made.
So yeah, yeah.
And so how are you in your research defining mental pressure and how are you characterizing
it in the games that you're looking at?
Yeah.
So actually what we did, we defined two aspects of mental pressure.
So the pre-game pressure and the in-game pressure.
So you can imagine that before a game starts, there's already some pressure on certain games.
For example, when you're playing a game for a championship, like in the primary leagues,
like I think it was 10 years ago, something like that, maybe less.
When a city and United, Manchester City United, both could be the champions, well, then
the pressure is getting high.
And we also investigated in-game mental pressure, and that's based on an in-game win probability
model.
So at each point in time, we predict, well, the win probability for both of the teams.
And when a goal has been scored, when this in-game win probability will change a lot,
then we say like the pressure is high.
So for example, when it's like a one-one in the last minutes, then pressure is really
high because when you score a goal, so mainly change the winner of the game, then there's
already a three-zero score on the board, then it doesn't matter anymore.
And so you've kind of characterized games by this low pressure, high pressure, or at least
the pre-game is the pressure is at the level of the game.
But the in-game, that's an attribute you're applying to the games, is it minute by minute
or event by event, or I guess it's just whenever the score changes?
Yeah, so that's actually whenever it's actually minute by minute.
So it's, yeah, so when the score changes, it will immediately affect this model.
And it takes into account the current score also like whether our red cards, yellow cards,
and the kind of stuff.
And also when a team is attacking a lot, they also account for that in the in-game win-pobility
model.
So yeah, that's it.
And like for the pre-game model, it's like a fixed set number per game, yeah.
And those two combined make like the pressure at a certain event in a game.
Okay.
And so you've got the pressure on the one hand and you're trying to use that to predict
what?
So we actually have depression on the one hand and on the other hand, we have actually
three performance metrics.
So for every action that we have, so this pass or a dribble, we compute three things.
So the contribution of this action, so by contribution, we mean the increase in scoring
a goal in the near future.
So actually for every action, we put the value of the game before the action and after
the action.
And the difference in those two makes the contribution of an action.
And next to that, we also measured the position, the quality of the decision and the quality
of the execution.
And those three, for those three values, we can see like how does a player perform.
But when the pressure is like in a normal normal state, when it's getting high and when
it's getting lower, and this is more like for descriptive analysis of all those players.
This contribution element, it sounds like that saying that at a given time in the game,
given all of the player positions and some event that just happened, you're able to come
up with some metric that captures kind of the relative advantage of the different teams
that in and of itself sounds like a hard problem.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah, so we, that was actually how this all started.
So I think a year before this paper, we worked on a model to measure these contributions
for other players.
So what this actually does is for each game state, that's how we call it.
So every game state is like characterized by all the actions that have been played until
then the position of the player with the ball, the time in the match, the score difference.
And for every game state, we predict the chance that within 10 actions goals being scored
by the one team.
So it's actually like a binary classification problem.
And we also, on the other hand, we also predict the chance that the other team will score
within 10 actions.
And in this way, we can measure like for every action, we can measure the offensive and
the other hand, the defensive contribution.
So for example, when a player passes the ball from his own half to his striker, this will
have like a very high contribution, a offensive contribution, without an other end, if you
interceptable in your own box, you will also have a high defensive contribution.
And that's what we, well, we were first worked on.
And this is also something that we already showed to our clients and they can find like
players that have like, for example, high ball's contribution, they can easily spot
talents before other others do.
With that original work on contribution, okay, there's a couple of questions there.
One, when you're looking at player position, like do you quantize that in some way or is
it kind of continuous position in the field?
Do you mean like with position, I mean, where, where the player is with the ball?
Okay.
Or do you even look at where the players are that don't have the ball?
Yeah, that's, that's a good point.
That's one of the, well, disadvantages of the event data.
So with this event data, we only have all the actions that happen with the ball.
So we have to pass the dribbles, but we don't know where all the other, well, 21 players
are.
Yeah.
So that's, well, that is.
Did you call that an advantage or a disadvantage?
Disadvantage.
Because it makes you problem easier.
Well, no, no, we, I would really love to have this, this data as well.
Yeah.
We currently don't have that.
But we also captured, well, we tried to capture this with, by adding information about
the attack.
So we, we add information about speed of the game.
So, so in, in the soccer, you have quite a lot of counter attacks.
So you know, like when the game moved fast or the ball moved fast to the other half, then
we know, like, this is a different situation than when the ball was, when it was a very
slow attack.
So that's the kind of things that we try to, to account for.
But yeah, we don't have these always locations now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It does seem like there is potentially an interesting element of player contribution that
is, you know, being in the right place at the right time that can't be captured in your
car model.
That's true.
But we're also looking at where a player receives the ball.
And that also already tells a lot about his positioning.
Okay.
But it was, yeah.
So if you, you often receive the ball in the, in the opponent's box, that says a lot
about his positioning that we've seen.
And so back to that positioning question, are you, like, do you kind of split the field
up into zones or, you know, meter by meter squares or something like that?
Are you using kind of absolute positioning?
Yeah.
We, we get it, like, in meter by meter, that's actually also what we use in the, so actually
you have the, it's annotated as like 100, 100 pitch.
And then we normalize it to like the, the normal pitch sizes in Europe or in, like, I
think, over, over all the world.
So that's how you, so it's a kind of meter by meter, yeah.
All right.
So you've got this contribution data.
And that becomes the, that's another one of the inputs to your, your choke or shine model.
Actually, is it the, is it the contribution that's trying to predict whether a point will
be scored in 10 actions or is that the, yeah, yeah, that's a contribution.
So actually that's the contribution is the difference in scoring a goal before your action
and after your action.
Ah, got it.
So if, so for example, if you have a bit on your own, the chance of scoring a goal within
10, 10 actions will be very low.
And then if it after the action is very, is higher than it's the difference between those.
And if you lose the ball, you get negative contribution ratings.
And so then you're taking this and as an input, and then using this to, I'm trying to get
back to the choke or shine model.
How does the contribution play into the mental pressure model?
So what we actually do is we investigate the moments in which the, well, actually we
investigate how what a normal contribution is for a certain player.
So in that way, we can, can identify the tenants, for example.
So we did this for the MLS, for example, we saw that, let's me see the names, a font
of Davies and Barco and Adams started Adams were in like in the 2018 season, when I like
to play with the highest contribution ratings in, in the MLS.
So what we actually do, we have this contribution ratings per action.
And if we then sum up all these ratings for a certain player, and then we normalize
this per, per 90 minutes of play, then we can actually say like what is this average
contribution for, for a game.
And then when we looked at, for example, a font of Davies, when the pressure was normal,
he belongs to the best players in the, in the league, but actually when the pressure is
getting high, he belongs to like more like an average player, even below average.
Okay.
So that was the kind of the insight that we were looking for, to see like how the players
perform, when this pressure is normal or high or low, so actually we've been the pressure
levels that we had in like three bins, and that's how we identified this.
And because we saw like, okay, we see this contribution is changing, but we also wanted
to know like, why is this changing?
And then we came up with the idea like, okay, the contribution rating of a player, it depends
actually on two things.
So contribution of an action depends actually on the choice that you made, and also on
how you execute this action.
So the choice can be to, to play the ball to your striker as a defender, but if you don't
execute it well, you will never get a high contribution.
And on the hand, if you make a wrong choice, but you execute the action in a good way,
then it's also will not give you a high contribution rating.
So that's what we're kind of looking for.
So to see why these ratings are changing for certain players.
So that's actually what we did, and we also looked into more like tactical analysis.
So for example, Manchester United, they tend to dribble less, dribble more when the pressure
is getting high, but actually their contribution from the dribbles is decreasing.
So they're choosing to dribble, then it's not a good decision to do that.
So that's kind of the insight that we were looking at.
And so were you able to arrive at the decision-making and execution as were these outputs of this
model or were these inputs to the model?
It was like inputs to the complete model, yeah.
So these are also based on the data that we got here.
So you have this data that's telling you if a pass is made and then is execution just
telling you if the pass was completed or if it was not completed.
And so does it, it doesn't really take into account defense contribution at all.
No, this is focused on the difficulty of the action.
So if you pause a long board and you manage to succeed, you will get a higher execution
rating.
But also like a tech also, tech also defensive action, it can also be unsuccessful or
you can also make a file in your own box.
So it also does take into account defensive actions.
But while we know that using event data, it's very hard to rate players on the defensive
actions, because while more things happen with the ball in offense, so that's that hard.
Yeah, that's one of the legs of the data.
And is the data, is there, is it labeled or rated in terms of the intended target for
a pass or is it just that a pass happened and the next event is whether the, you know,
the pass was received or if someone intercepted it.
Yeah, that's actually, we know the end location of the pass or we know the direction of it.
And in that way, we can kind of predict where it was going to, yeah.
Okay.
So we know the end location.
Yeah.
All right.
So tell us a little bit about the process of coming up with the, this model.
How did you start and what were some of the things that you tried?
So well, we actually started with like having lots of discussions and while thinking of how
we want to want to measure this.
So well, as I said before, we work together with two people from the living university.
So they visited us and coslaven is in Belgium.
So they visited us at, at Amosford, at our office and we had just had like one big, just
discussing, no programming, just discussing how we wanted to do this.
And that's how we came up with the different models that we wanted to capture.
And our main thing was you also wanted to try as much as possible and get, see how far
we got in all of those aspects.
And we know like some things are hard to capture with the data that we have.
So we first started with how to, we already had this contribution ratings.
So we tried to improve those, train it on more data, try some different models for that.
And the main focus was in beginning on how to measure this, this meant pressure.
So for the free game, meant pressure model, we wanted to, well, we needed some kind of
ground food to train this model.
So that's why we, we'll talk to some soccer experts, it's how we call them.
So soccer players, trainers, coaches, scouts from clubs and we let them, well, we made
like a tool where they could like rank games and we gave them information about this game.
So was it in the beginning of the season, what is the ranking of the, of the league, what
is the goal of the team, that kind of stuff.
And then they, they could rank those, those teams.
So it was like a pair of white ranking.
And we use this to train, to train our pre game meant pressure model.
So in this model, we make use of, well, different features.
So as I said before, the ranking of the team, how long the season is already been played.
So where in the season are we?
And also like on what spot are they?
So if they are playing for your, your opa league spots, then the pressure will be higher
than when they already medicated, for example.
So that's actually how we started by making this tool and collecting as much input as possible
or also talking to these people to ask them what do you think is like important when
you feel the pressure.
It's actually how it started and then we kept on improving.
And so with that, the pressure model, were you training against subjective labels of whether
a game was high pressure or not?
Yeah, so actually the rank labels by the experts, yeah.
Okay.
So that's the pressure model.
And then what kind of model did you use for that?
So for the pre game pressure model, we use it's gradient boosted ranking trees.
And for the in game, mental pressure model, that's so for that model, we wanted to predict
that every time, so every minute in the game, the sum of the goals, the number of goals
that both teams would score.
And then we could like predict the probabilities of win, draw and loss.
And for this model, we made use of the out of the French stations, variational inference
of a bi-MC tree.
And we trained this on all the data that we had up until the 2017 to 2018 season.
So yeah, that's actually how we trained these two models and the combination of those
two pressure models.
So the in game and the pre game, it makes us the pressure model.
How are those combined?
Yeah, so that's where we also had, well, difficulty.
What difficulty is like, it's very hard to, I think in the, I think it's many areas,
but in sports, it's kind of hard if you don't really have a ground truth.
So in the end, we decided to multiply those two numbers.
So it's the in game and the pre game.
So when the pre game pressure is high, but in the game, it quickly gets to a 3.0 score,
so there's not really high pressure anymore than the total pressure will be low as well.
But we certainly wanted to do, want to do more investigation in this.
You should just collect more information on that.
You mentioned some of the kind of surprising findings from looking at some of the MLS
players, were there any other kind of interesting surprises in when you started applying these
results?
Yeah, there were like lots of results that we, some that we already, that we also expected.
For example, that Cristiano Ronaldo is like very constant in the pressure.
So what is not, nothing new maybe, but that was felt good to see this, but for Neymar.
So when he was still playing it by Barcelona, his performance goes down in the pressure.
So then he's like more like an average player, whilst when the pressure is lower, he belongs
like to the best of the league.
And then what we also find really interesting is that Liverpool tends to buy players that
perform well on the pressure.
So there's actually just something that we found by accident, but it's interesting to
see.
So in their signings, from the last three seasons, were all except for Kaita, they were all
like performing way better under pressure than under low pressure.
So that was interesting to see.
Do you think there's anything interesting in looking at kind of the overall team composition
of players that perform better in low pressure versus high pressure?
Are there any interesting ideas there?
Yeah, so we also also looked at that.
So we wanted to show as many applications as possible.
So we looked at what the defenders of Reventus, for example, and we saw that there are two
players, Benassia and Bulushi, who like perform way better when the pressure is high and
like two others, Kilini and Rugani perform way worse under pressure.
So this might help coaches to select the players to let them play in a certain match.
So when you're playing like a Champions League final, you might choose Benassia over Kilini.
So yeah, there's also some interesting insights in there.
So this then goes a bit beyond the kind of scouting use cases that you tend to focus on
and could be something that is useful for tactical planning by coaches.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, we also, well, we started focusing on the scouting, but we currently also like doing
other stuff for clubs.
So we helped them, for example, with the opponent analysis.
So finding the weaknesses and strengths of their opponents.
For example, at previous World Cup, the men's World Cup, I must say, there was, we helped
the Belgium team, like analyzing their opponents, although they came until the semi-finals,
so that was nice as well.
So that's also where this could be very helpful, yeah.
And what I said before, also for mental coaches that want to show the stuff, how their
progress is with certain players is also very helpful to have something to measure this.
So it could be used for many things, yeah.
You certainly learned a lot about the kind of the application of some of these models
to this problem, but were there any interesting kind of fundamental learnings or observations
on the part of your team about applying these kinds of models to the kinds of data that
you're applying it to?
It was interesting to see that there are differences between certain players, but I think
definitely we need to investigate more, whether we can also like make it more like a predictive
thing to predict the performance of players in the future.
So we're looking into that right now.
But yeah, I think the main insight is that there's lots of users to be done still on this
field.
And that we are able to capture certain things, to capture contributions of players and
in a better way than just looking at the number of goalscord, because in soccer there's
like on average just two goals per game.
So it definitely doesn't always say that the one team was better than the other.
So yeah, we found some interesting insights in there.
Where did you find the most challenges from a technical perspective?
Good question.
Well, it was really hard to get the in-game win probability model working well.
I think also like the hard thing is to get this ground truth in soccer, that's where we
have to deal with.
We don't have the locations of the other players.
So that was for the decision rating model very hard as well.
So I think that's what from technical side was hard to get it all working in a good way.
And I think also, yeah, not just from technical side, but one of the problems is I think to
get this message across to people from the industry, from the soccer world.
So just the applicability of machine learning and analytics in general, or the specifically
around looking at mental pressure.
I think in general, but especially in mental pressure, also like the mental aspect of
the game, if analyzing the mental aspect is very new in most sports, and then also using
data for that is like for people in the soccer industry that's maybe a bit too early right
now.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
So we tried to inform them how they could use this.
So that's also what we're investigating right now, how we can best present this to the
users.
I should have asked this earlier, but assuming that kind of the testing of your models
was done against kind of held out data, did you, how do you test this against kind of
real world scenarios, have you done any of that?
Yeah.
So for example, the, well, actually often models, we used like three seasons of data for
that, like to train the models, and to validate it on another season.
And then the results were presented on the, well, on the season that we didn't train
over the data on.
So for example, for the, for the contribution rating aspect, we have like, we have like
the ground truth.
It's like the label is when it goes being scored within 10 actions, the label will be one
and you'll otherwise zero.
So that's how we, well, how we trained that model.
For the others, we, for the pressure model, as explained, we used the ranking provided
by the experts to get that one working.
Very good.
Well, a lot to thank you so much for taking the time to chat with us about your paper.
It's really interesting stuff.
Yeah, thanks.
I enjoyed it.
All right, everyone, that's our show for today.
For more information on Lata or any of our other guests, visit twomelai.com.
Be sure to register for Twomelcon AI platforms now before prices go up this Saturday, September
7th.
As always, thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
