Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast why interview interesting
people, doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
Over the past few months we've been working hard to craft an agenda for Twimblecon AI
platforms that's both practical and interactive and I encourage you to check out what we've
pulled together over at Twimblecon.com if you haven't recently.
But Twimblecon is about more than great content, it's also about community and in that vein
we'll be creating numerous opportunities for attendees to engage with one another and
the broader Twimble universe.
One of the things I am most excited about is that at Twimblecon we'll be joined by a bunch
of formal Twimble podcast guests.
This esteemed group will be there to take in all that Twimblecon has to offer including
the opportunity to learn from and share their experiences with the entire AI platforms
community.
We'll be hosting an unconference at Twimblecon as well.
This is a community driven segment of the event where attendees will have the opportunity
to propose and vote on topics that they want to further explore in small group discussions
and presentations.
Finally, after kicking off the first day with great keynote interviews and breakout sessions
we wanted to make sure that attendees have the opportunity to unwind and connect.
Plus, we also want it and excuse to celebrate our first conference third birthday and 300th
episode of the podcast.
Also we'll be concluding day one with a Twimblecon happy hour par day.
Of course, there will be food and drinks but also fun activities like an AWS deep racer
contest, a Twimble interview booth and photo booth, a DJ and more.
You definitely don't want to miss out.
There's still time to register at Twimblecon.com which takes place on October 1st and 2nd in San
Francisco, hit pause now and head over to twimblecon.com slash register to secure your spot.
We'll wait for you.
Great.
Now that you're all registered and ready to go, please enjoy today's show.
All right everyone, I am on the line with Greg Wilcox.
Greg is director of R&D at unanimous AI.
Greg, welcome to this week in machine learning and AI.
Hi.
Thanks for having me.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
So before we started this call, I went over to your LinkedIn and saw that you did your
thing undergrad and grad work at Wash You in St. Louis, which I'm in St. Louis recording
this as we speak and based here in St. Louis.
Yeah.
So maybe tell us a little bit about your your background and kind of how you got started
in AI.
Sure.
Yeah, absolutely.
So I got started, I was doing my bachelor's in systems engineering and physics at Wash
You.
And I was really enjoying it.
And I had the opportunity to do my masters there as well.
And I wanted to get into robotics.
Robotics had always interest me.
I had done some electrical engineering and my dad's an electrical engineer.
And I got thinking and started like doing some research and artificial intelligence
as a result.
Robotics research is focused around machine learning and obviously artificial intelligence.
So through that process, I took a couple of machine learning courses, got more and more
interested.
And obviously started hearing about things like like deep learning and AlphaGo and stuff
like that.
Obviously, just super motivating results that I think a lot of students these days are
noticing and taking note of and really motivating them to get started in AI research.
So I followed that same path and got my masters in robotics from Wash You.
And then, yeah, and then joined unanimous tell us a little bit about what unanimous is
up to.
I'm looking at this paper that you wrote with the CEO and founder of the company Lewis Rosenberg
on artificial swarm intelligence.
What is that?
And what are you trying to do at the company?
Yeah, absolutely.
So most AI companies take the approach that we can use artificial intelligence and machine
learning to automate human processes, right, to do things that are easy or hard to do,
but that are fairly automatable, such as making predictions or learning about the world and
making decisions as a result of that.
At unanimous, we treat humans a little differently, right, rather than data labelled, rather than
as data labellers, we think that humans are really, really fundamentally very smart and
have knowledge and wisdom about the world that state of the art machine learning algorithms
just don't have access to you.
And so by thinking about humans in this way, by thinking about them as really, really smart,
we can actually use them as data processors rather than data points.
So when you're, as one example, when you're on surfing Google, Google's tracking your
clicks, they're treating your behaviors as just a data point.
And trying to learn, like, market using machine learning algorithms to market to you based
on your data points that you leave behind.
We do things very differently.
We connect people using AI algorithms and allow them to think together as a group.
So what we've, like, we've devised this swarm AI algorithm that's based off of algorithms
and nature that allow human groups to make more optimal forecasts, decisions, or prioritizations.
And it's all really based on this idea in nature that organisms are better collectively
thinking than thinking alone.
And some examples of that are bees, fish, schools of fish, flocks of birds.
All of these natural organisms have developed systems that allow themselves to think together
more accurately than individuals.
So a bee, when trying to be colony, when trying to think about, well, where should we position
our hive next year?
A single bee just can't make that decision.
They're just not intelligent enough.
They have a brain, the size of a grain of rice.
And so they can't think of, oh, there are 17 different locations and let's weigh those
on different factors, including the height from the ground, the size of the hive itself,
et cetera, et cetera.
So the individuals are not smart enough to make this decision accurately.
And so what they do is they form this real-time system.
They actually, an immersion intelligence forms because the group thinks together as a whole.
And the way they do that is by communicating.
They form a swarm intelligence by almost debating the answers in real time.
I don't know if you're familiar with a waggle dance, but essentially they are dancing
to express their conviction in a certain site.
Yeah, so bees do this in one way, fish to another way, birds do it in a different way.
But really what we see is that these real-time systems of independent thinkers and decision
makers, the real-time systems, there's a whole form of smarter, super intelligence,
a hive mind that is smarter than the individuals in the group.
And so we based our technology off that phenomenon called swarm intelligence.
And all we do is because humans hasn't evolved that method themselves of forming swarms,
we've created an artificial swarm intelligence, which is really connecting humans with an
AI algorithm so that the humans can become a hive mind.
They can group together into hive mind that is more accurate as a whole than any individual
as a group, or then the group as just as if they were taking a vote.
I don't think anyone would argue your kind of base premises that humans are smart and
that they communicate and when they communicate they can make each other smarter or make better
decisions, things like that.
Beyond that though, the notion of kind of this confluence of swarm and AI is still abstract.
How can we make that more concrete?
Sure.
So you can think of language as one form of swarming.
So you can think that when we're communicating everyone is thinking together as a group,
let's say we're a group of five people trying to make a decision.
We would start talking and coming up with the best answer.
So that's a form of swarming.
The problem is, it's basically a focus group or a debate.
The loudest person in the room exerts the most influence, our biases come into play.
So age, ethnicity, the background of a human determines how you judge that human.
And so realistically, that's not an effective form of decision making.
The groups, insights are not aggregated in a good way.
So what we've done is we've designed a graphical interface, an online interface in which all
participants are anonymous.
And this interface contains a puck and everyone has a magnet that they can pull on a puck
on the puck.
And so in an anonymous way, in a very democratic way, where everyone's exerting influence
in real time synchronously, we can reach optimal decisions collectively together.
So it's an anonymous democratic form of communication.
So we've got a decision that needs to be made.
Where should we build our hive?
We've all got, say, there are half a dozen options and we've all got access to some magnets
where we can pull this puck.
It sounds like you're, it's kind of a sophisticated voting scheme in some way.
Sure.
Yeah, you can consider it.
It's real time voting, but where the consensus is being represented on the screen.
And so yeah, it's, yeah, it's similar to that.
And so where does AI come into play?
So what we're really doing with the AI is moderating the discussion.
The puck is sort of a representation of the consensus of the swarm.
And so as that approaches a target, the swarm is choosing that one as the puck approaches
an answer, the swarm is choosing that answer.
So where the AI really comes into play is moderating the strength of each user.
So as we, as we notice, one user is more convicted than another or really, really has a strong
belief in one of the answers, they'll get more strength and more weight into the decision
or forecast.
And so we've designed a number of AI algorithms that using this graphical interface sort
of measure users' conviction.
For example, if they're switching between multiple answers, they're probably less convicted.
They've less strength of belief than someone who is pulling for the same answer in the
whole swarm.
Someone that's really entrenched and really, really wants one answer is more convicted than
someone who's wishy-washy.
So we have some algorithms that measure conviction in that way.
Another one is that you really have to be close to this puck with your magnet, the closer
your magnet, the more force you have.
The problem is the puck moving.
And so you have to be really thinking and really putting effort into controlling the location
of your magnet, really trying to pull as hard as you can at all times.
And that dynamic system, really, we've shown that it is very useful in finding the conviction
of a user.
The user that are more convicted will put more effort and mentally into trying to exert
their will on the puck.
And so when we're talking about moving this puck, are we talking about with a video game
controller or like slamming down on the down arrow keys or just using your mouse or using
your mouse?
So you're physically doing some action.
So this is kind of like a real time voting thing where you've got, I'm trying to remember
the name of this video game that I'm thinking about where you have like multiple players
and you end up like, it has one of these track balls and you just end up slamming this
track ball as hard as you can to try to move whatever it is in your direction.
Like, that's the picture that's forming for me.
Yeah.
So it's, I think rather than slamming a track ball, it's pretty calm and it's pretty fun.
Users really enjoy using the system, I think.
Yeah, but I think it is like a very engaging experience where people really are like, are
feel a sense of emotion when the swarm is not going their way and they're really forced
to think about the options it played and how they can reach and answer that's good for
them, even if it's not their best answer.
And so it's about at this game of compromise, a game is maybe a good word for it when
we're thinking about compromise and entrenchment and all these human factors.
So it really at the end of the day comes back to humans and emotions.
So you mentioned compromise and previously you mentioned that the part of the dynamic
of this game or system is that the more convicted user, you know, gets more strength and has
more greater ability to influence the outcome.
You know, if the political climate is any indication, you know, strength of conviction
isn't necessarily tied to, you know, judgment or, you know, willingness to compromise.
How does that play out in this environment?
Yeah, so well, strength of conviction isn't always correlated to accuracy.
In general, we find that it is specifically when there's a, when we're forecasting.
So if we're like trying to forecast the outcome of a sports game, generally we find that
the strength of someone's conviction is correlated to their accuracy.
People who don't know what they're talking about are more likely to switch than people
who do know what they're talking about.
All that in certain cases is not true.
As a general rule, we find it to be the case.
And you mentioned sports.
Maybe that's a good segue to talking about some use cases that will help make this even
more concrete.
It sounds like you're doing some work in the sports arena.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So every week we predict a number of sports, the five main sports in the US, NHL, NBA,
MLB, NFL, and EPL, English Premier League.
We've done some really, really interesting research that shows that swarms are very,
very accurate at forecasting sports.
And so we're predicting March madness this year.
And actually last year, maybe a good, a good point of conversation is that we went up
against ESPN.
And ESPN has this bracket.
Anyone can make a bracket on ESPN and 17 million people did last year.
What's crazy about that is that we got a group of 50 people to forecast this bracket as
well.
That's a full 63 games.
And that's really, you have to forecast the first round then based on your picked winners
from the first round or the second round.
And so forecasting these 63 games, we find that the 17 million people, if you calculate
their average, they would have performed in the 50th percentile.
But when making a decision, when making a forecast as a swarm, we can increase the forecasting
accuracy of just 50 regular fans all the way up to the 92nd percentile.
So really we're aggregating the wisdom and the insights of participants to make more
accurate forecasts.
The point of conversation normally comes up, well, what happens if you're just taking
a vote of that 17 million people, right?
That's a huge base of knowledge and wisdom.
How well would they have done?
Well, we find that if the ESPN has a people's bracket, which is like basically a wisdom
that crowd and an average of the most people's brackets.
So if you had taken a vote, the people's bracket is what you would have received.
And that only scored in the 60th percentile.
So we get an extra 32% improvement upon that by aggregating knowledge and wisdom in
a real time swarming system rather than just taking a vote.
And so the 50 people that participate in this, where they somehow randomly chosen from
the 17 million or is there a relationship between them?
Yeah, they weren't, they were sampled from a similar population, right?
They just as self identified as enthusiasts.
They were not experts, they weren't paid to participate or compensated for their accuracy.
They were just regular NBA fans who signed up VR and newsletter and wanted to forecast
these games and see what the swarm would have predicted.
And so predicting, trying to predict the outcome of sports games is one application or what
are some others?
Sure.
So what's really powerful about this technology is that it's usable across really any domain,
any question that a human can answer, a group of humans can also answer.
So swarm, therefore, can also answer.
So we see applications of this from sports as one example, but medical is another.
We did a study with Stanford that showed we can reduce the diagnostic error of doctors
by 33% when diagnosing pneumonia.
We can amplify the accuracy of financial traders by 26% when thinking together as a swarm.
So medicine, finance, business decision making is another where we're thinking about making
business forecast or prioritizations or really decisions in a swarm.
And we've shown that that's also significantly more accurate.
So really the applications for this technology are vast.
And so yeah, we're really at the moment hoping to bring that to more and more people.
Okay.
So I'm getting kind of my picture of what you're doing continues to refine.
I guess my current sound bite maybe would be that it's kind of like a real time nonverbal
collaboration tool in a sense where you're collaborating over or voting tool where you're
like collaborating or voting on kind of simple questions as opposed to projects or something
like that.
Yeah.
And I think collaboration is absolutely the way to think about this because we're not just
taking a simple vote.
We're asking people to behave like and the behaviors here are the really, really important
part.
Yeah.
This maybe goes back to this idea of conviction, but do you find that is there some dynamic
where a person's participation in this?
Is it again like slamming the track ball as hard as you can or moving the mouse as hard
as you can or just kind of in other words, as vigorously as you desire, trying to impose
your conviction on the other participants or is there some kind of dynamic nature where
people you've demonstrated that people see what other people are also convicted about
and kind of change the way they express themselves?
So we find that people are very sort of empathetic when using the system.
They're more easily able to consider other people's viewpoints and so they're instead of
the idea of slamming a track ball, really trying to impose your will on other people.
When using the system, you only have, let's say, there are 40 people in the system, you
have one 40th of the control, right?
So you really are not in complete control, it's the will of that hive mind, if you will,
that determines the decisions or forecasts or outputs of the system.
And so really you are just a small part of a larger tool, of a larger system.
And so you need to work with the system by thinking how could I best direct this towards
what I would like rather than trying to exert your will on the system and make other people
believe you?
Yeah.
And I guess that's kind of the question that I'm trying to ask, you know, and the one
end, there's just, you know, say that there are, you know, six possible responses.
You know, the one end is like a one-dimensional input where I'm just pressing CCC or, you
know, trying to direct somehow this puck to C. But it sounds like you're describing
a world in which it's almost like a strategy game in the small where I'm trying to exert
influence indirectly, but it's not clear to me how that plays out in the scenarios we've
talked about.
Sure.
Yeah.
So let's imagine, let's imagine that there are three options and they're equally spaced
and what we're like, let's say that 30% of people are pulling towards answer one and
70% of people are pulling towards answer two.
And let's say I'm pulling towards answer three.
So as the swarm is evolving, the puck is moving towards answer two because most people are
pulling towards that outcome.
But if I really don't like answer two, I could oppose it.
I could pull against it rather than pulling four or something, right?
Or I could switch to answer one.
Really what I'm, what I'm engaging in is this behavior that is really, really complex.
It's like a game in which I'm deciding how do I want to try to influence the swarm?
And so concretely, this could be if we're talking about a puck moving around a decision
space on a screen, I could just be pulling directly against an answer that I don't want.
Or I could be switching and pulling four and answer I do want.
In real time, everyone's making these decisions.
Everyone's thinking together and behaving together.
And so it's, it forms a very complex system where there are an infinite number of ways to
reach an answer.
But the way that I behave is going to be reflective of my beliefs on that question.
If I am pulling against an answer, I'm showing I really don't want that answer.
If I'm pulling, if I switch from one answer to another, I'm saying, well, I value this
answer.
But if forced to choose a different answer, I would choose this one, this other answer.
So yeah, I think you're on the spot on that it is really like a decision space where
people are trying to come to come to an answer that's not necessarily their first choice.
We're talking because there's AI involved in this.
Let's maybe dig into where exactly you're using AI and what types of AI are at play here.
So our research and AI focus mainly on three components, right?
We are studying what happens before a swarm.
How do we select the right participants to join a swarm?
So a swarm of experts, we like can really only amplify intelligence.
And so if people are flipping coins and they have no idea, we can't amplify that.
So we have to find experts, people who know enough about a question, experts are enthusiasts
in order to amplify intelligence.
So finding the right people is really important and finding enough of them is really important.
Swarms are more accurate with more people.
So that's the first stage, finding the right people for a swarm.
Then our AI system in the during the swarm phase is really really important.
This is the phase where we're waiting people's contributions to the swarm when they're
swarming, really engaging in deliberation and devising the algorithms that constitute
that deliberation.
So that's like, who has the most conviction?
What is the right way to ask questions in order to get really accurate intelligence out?
So that's a level of real time AI that we've devised and we continue to iterate upon
and make more and more accurate.
And then the final stage that we focus on researching is post processing.
And so post processing can take any number of forms from visualization of the deliberation.
Why did the swarm choose this? How did they reach this answer to more complex machine learning?
Which is, what is the probability that the answer is correct?
One of the really interesting projects that we did over the past couple months was training
a conviction network.
So this is a behavioral neural network that looks at the aggregate behaviors of all of these
individuals in the swarm and tries to say, what is the probability in abstract terms
that the swarm was correct?
So to make this more concrete, let's take an example.
Let's say we're predicting hockey and HL.
And the swarm is considering will team A or team B win, right?
So as the swarm behaves, you'll see people pulling for team A high confidence, team
A low confidence, they're really expressing different levels of conviction in the right
answer.
We've trained a machine learning algorithm to predict the probability that that pick will
be correct.
So if they choose the nights to win a game, we may be able to say, not only, oh, we think
the nights will win, but they'll win with a 64% probability.
Now that's really, really interesting because it's a level deeper, it's a level more
precise than what the swarm is giving.
We're really using these complex behaviors, the acquiescence, the entrenchment of users
to get an understanding of what is the real world probability of this event.
And so with this model, with this probabilistic forecast, which we call conviction, we're
able to significantly amplify the precision of swarms.
One specific example of that was NBA last year.
So we predicted 238 games over 25 weeks in NBA.
So team A or team B, who will win.
And we find that as a baseline, the swarm returns to 25% ROI.
So betting on the swarm's picks, you would have made 25% of return on investment.
That means if you bet $100 at the start of the season, and bet evenly across all of
the swarm's picks, by the end of the season, you would have $125.
Which is pretty impressive result, and we find statistically significant result that the
swarm outperformed the large-scale Vegas application.
But when we apply this machine learning model conviction to select the games that we
think are more probable than Vegas suggests, like when we really devise it precise forecast
and then bet based on that forecast, we can increase this ROI significantly to 52%.
So really, that's a very, very interesting result to us because it means that the behaviors
in swarms are more interesting and more important than just the raw result itself.
It's how people interact with one another, how they weigh their levels of conviction, and
how they behave that is the primary functionality of the swarm.
It's why that's the reason this is so accurate.
It sounds a little bit like kind of the mythical perpetual money machine.
And whenever I hear that, I wonder, why are you bothering trying to sell software, or
whatever you're doing, and that's just like playing your own bank?
Yeah, absolutely.
It's partly because this is a really experimental technology.
This is also a very recent result.
We published this conviction result recently.
And so we're just starting to, we are always surprised by the accuracy of this technology.
And so it is a, we're still growing our levels of confidence in this.
Really, we're still experimenting and analyzing post-humorously these results.
Sports forecasting and financial forecasting is definitely on our roadmap for the future.
But we're a small team, and it's going to take a little bit more time before we're ready
to put company money on that.
Although I can share that our internal team is betting small amounts with our own money
just as an office pool.
Like just for fun.
But before we're like, we're not ready to go.
Kind of the unanimous version of dog fooding.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Puppy Chow is something we engage in regularly.
So this conviction network, maybe talk a little bit about the inputs of this network,
the architecture or structure of the network, anything unique about how it's trained, that
kind of stuff.
Yeah, so really it's a neural network that's training on the behaviors of swarms.
So what I mean by that is it's looking at aggregate statistics, like how long a swarm
took to reach an answer, how much support there was for each answer, and the changes in
that support over time.
And it uses these features, this set of features, and trains on the outcome of the games.
So if the swarm reaches an answer very quickly with high support for a single team, that's
a very high conviction answer and it's going to give a high probability that the swarm gets
that answer correct.
And historically, we've seen that high support for an answer and short time to reach that
answer is associated with a very accurate forecast.
So it's a standard machine learning program, like inputs as behaviors, outputs as probability
trained on a binary representation of, was this game correct?
It was a loss.
Yeah, it went to losses, exactly, with the special sauce really being the behaviors of individuals
in the swarm, right?
The special component of this is the data that we have access to as part of treating
humans as data processors rather than data points.
So the inputs are essentially kind of meta features of the swarm itself.
Yep, exactly.
And so we're kind of digging into the various places that machine learning expresses itself
in the platform, the conviction network, you kind of went through these three finding
the right people waiting for their contributions and post processing and then it sounds like
the conviction network is a separate thing if I'm understanding that correctly.
Yeah.
Maybe let's kind of dig into a little bit the, you know, those first three finding the
right people like, where does machine learning come in there?
Well, we can start there.
Sure.
Yeah.
So conviction is like a one part of the post processing in the pre-processing section.
We want actually my first project with unanimous was as like a master's project in my program
was to identify the right users, right?
So let's, we get a number of surveys every week, every, every week before our sports
warms.
We do a survey and we say, who do you think will win, team A or team B for each of the
games that we're predicting?
Obviously, over time, we find that some users are better than others.
And so part of our statistics and machine learning efforts focus on how do we identify
the right like users that will perform well?
One way to do that is by saying, okay, what's your historical accuracy?
And we can use a Bayesian framework for that or we can use like other statistical frameworks
to say, what is your average accuracy over time?
And we can use those users?
Or we could look a little deeper into the data that we're collecting and say for a specific
survey, what is the probability that you are like a good user?
How, how well are you expected to perform relative to average?
We've made some really interesting strides in that space as well by treating humans as like
again, as data processors rather than data points.
And so like to give an example of one of the ways we're doing that, we designed recently
a dynamic survey that uses a novel nonlinear scale to make humans really think about to
weigh their risk and reward, to say they are essentially wagering on games, but the more
that they wager on one team, the amount that they win if the other team is actually wins
and is successful decreases even more.
And so there's this nonlinear dichotomy that they have to think about and be faced with
in order to make a decision.
And so we found that this method of wagering, which if you go on our blog and take one of
these sports predictions, you actually be directed to this novel scale, we found that
this method of asking people to behave in a survey allows us to identify the good versus
the bad performers on a specific week more accurately.
So more than just saying, oh, you've performed well in the past, we have methods that allow
us to identify, oh, on the specific week, are you likely to perform well?
You know, say going back to kind of our predicting sports games, it strikes me that one of
the keys would be figuring out the right representation or features for the games themselves.
Like, how do you, what makes a given, you know, we talking about even the right people
for hockey versus basketball, and I guess, you know, we can just label those as hockey
and basketball, but if we're talking about a specific basketball game, are we, you
know, is it kind of a naive thing?
Well, this person, you know, bets correctly with regards to this team or, you know, I
guess how rich is the feature space for that you're looking at for games or, you know,
any of these things that you're trying to optimize the people choices around?
Yeah, absolutely.
That's a great question.
So the data set is getting richer as we clutch more data.
What I think you're moving towards is, can we wait the contributions of individuals for
specific games?
So if we notice that one of, like, this one user, let's call them user A, is great at predicting
the outcome of night's games, maybe because there are nights fan, but really terrible at predicting
Raptor games or, like, so those are two hockey teams.
So they're great at predicting one hockey team, but really bad at predicting another hockey
team, like, because they're fans of one team and maybe don't know anything about the other
team.
It's like, so could we wait that user in this form, highly on one question, give that sort
of an expert level on one question and give them a novice level on another question, which
is sort of yes we can, but we find that generally, we want to, we want to curate a diverse population
so in order to make the most accurate predictions.
And so the factors that I would highlight as being the most key to accurate swarm forecasting
are the average level of knowledge of participants, the average, the size of the group as the two
primary factors, and then the third is the diversity of beliefs.
So the more, or the diversity of information sources, and what I would say about that
is if everyone is answering questions from the same news source, so if everyone's getting
their news from Fox News or something and there's no diversity, no one's getting from CNN
or BBC or LG Zero, then they're all going to have the same belief and they may all be
right or they may all be wrong.
What swarms are really good at is aggregating from really diverse information sets, really
diverse sources.
And so if we have one night's fan and one raptors fan, that's probably going to be better
than just having all really accurate night's fans in a group.
So we've talked about post processing and pre processing, what are, what are kind of
the underlying mechanisms of the waiting component?
So the most important, so in during the swarm and the optimization of the swarm, which
is the central component to our technology, the most important thing are these algorithms
that we've discussed around how do we allow groups to deliberate, how do we engage them
in a real time system, so the real time component of this algorithm is really the most important,
but then second to that is how do we allow them to see each other's beliefs and how do
we aggregate those beliefs?
And so those are really systems level components that I think are the most important.
And so is machine learning a component in doing those system level things or are they
more deterministic in some way or?
Yeah, so we use machine learning to understand what makes an accurate swarm.
We use data science to do that as well as we are developed and as we become more complex
as a company, we may be able to use machine learning within the algorithm itself.
At the moment, what we've has gotten us to this point though has been just allowing,
just having static algorithms.
So algorithms that there's a list of I think 30 algorithms that determine how the swarm
evolves determines the weight of individuals that determines the location of the puck,
all of these different factors, and while we use data science and machine learning to
optimize those factors, we don't use machine learning in the process of a swarm.
And so we've talked about kind of sports betting as one area of use for this, you're building
this for some customer, maybe you're building it ultimately to build a perpetual money
machine and just get rich with compounding winnings.
But perhaps is there a customer that you've got in mind for this?
And if so, who is that customer?
Is it the sports world or is that kind of a demonstration?
Is there some other kind of customer who do you think needs this?
Yeah, so I think it was Einstein that said compounding interest is the most powerful force
in the universe, but that's not really our goal here.
Our goal is to make humans smarter.
It's to keep humans relevant in a time where AI is becoming very dominant or very powerful.
This system follows by being based off of humans.
It has human ethics, human morals, and it's able to make decisions that AI, I don't
believe should, because it keeps humans in the loop.
As a result of that, what we're really targeting with this platform is allowing human teams
to access this tool.
And so one of the exciting news and outs we have is that in the next two weeks we'll
be opening this system up, this platform up for beta customers.
So any business team that wants to amplify their accuracy of their forecasts or prioritizations
or get consumer research in a more accurate way to understand that beliefs and needs
of their consumers, all of these applications can be used by subscribers to this software.
So really what we're focusing on is making humans smarter and having as broad a reach
in terms of the teams and the applications that we can help people make good decisions
with as possible.
A link to that, the artificial swarm intelligence paper in the show notes and that one has a
ton of references by yourself and Lewis in a variety of kind of peer reviewed conferences
and journals and the like for folks that want to dig in deeper.
But if you were to, is there any other kind of singular reference that you would point
folks to who want to learn more about this way of kind of building systems or thinking
about systems?
Yeah, I think the white paper is the best resource for just understanding.
And other than that, I would refer you to our website, unanimous.ai or our publications
page, unanimous.ai slash publications, those both are great resources for understanding
how this works, the applications for where this can be applied and sort of why it works.
Awesome.
So great.
Thanks so much for taking the time to chat with me really interesting stuff.
Thank you so much for having me.
Alright, everyone, that's our show for today.
For more information on this guest or any of our guests, visit twimmelai.com.
Be sure to register for Twimmelcon AI platforms today.
You can do that at twimmelcon.com.
As always, thanks so much for listening and catch you next time.
