Hey what's up everyone this is Sam. Today is a very special day for me and the
entire Twilmal team. After over 1200 days of podcasting interviews with guests
from six of the seven continents and Antarctica we see you. Nearly six
million downloads and less than two weeks away from our very first conference we
are ecstatic to bring you the 300th episode of the show.
coinciding with this important milestone I am excited to share that we'll be
rolling out updates to the Twilmal brand over the next few weeks. When I
launched this week in machine learning and AI I never imagined that I'd be
meeting new people who'd see my name or hear my voice and say hey you're the
Twilmal guy. Not to say the Twilmal is a household name or anything like that but
we love this and are embracing it. With that in mind the show will now be known
as the Twilmal AI podcast. If you head over to Twilmal AI.com you can check out
our new logo and the refresh show graphics that accompany this change.
Obviously we want to know what you think of our new look so please reach out via
email, Twitter, the show notes page, carrier pigeon or whatever works best for
you. And now on to the 300th show.
All right everyone I am on the line with Kalai Ramia. Kalai is a data scientist
at Park, the storied Xerox research organization. Kalai welcome to this
week in machine learning and AI. Thank you Sam. Thanks for having me. It's great
to be here. It is great to have you on the show. You come at data science with a
background in transportation and that certainly influences some of the
research that we'll be talking about today. But I'd love to hear a little bit
more about your story and how you came to be interested in the intersection of
these fields. Sure. So my undergrad and grad background like Master's
background was in transportation systems. So I was working on a lot of you
know spatial design of transportation networks and all those things. I was
getting bored a little bit of doing the same things again. So I went to grad
school in a super interdisciplinary program which involves transportation, energy
systems, econometrics, environment. So I don't even know how to describe it in
one sentence what I did. But I had like four advices just to give a
taste of how that was. I'm starting to you know I believe that the
harder it is to describe what you do the more interesting it is.
Yeah. So I'll try anyway. So I worked on something called integrated assessment
models. So these are the models they use it to inform for example the IPCC
reports for climate change. It is an intergovernmental panel for climate
change. So if they want to inform the public like what's going to happen in a
two degrees Celsius policy, then these are all the things that be
saying this report using this mathematical model. And this is a humongous
model where we solve each sector in a Rubik's cube format looking at what are
the cost effective pathways for transportation to achieve the climate goals
or for residential even like what would be the right amount of LED lights we need to
have to achieve this efficiency criteria and so on. So that was my
PhD program. So I like I mentioned like I worked with all kinds of fields to
build this humongous model. And I my specialty or my
dissertation was focusing on like including human behavior in
light duty papers like how people will be able to purchase different kinds of
new technologies and how that will lead to
climate goals. So that was the essence of it. And while I was doing that in my
grad school, I was getting familiar with machine learning
and advanced data science techniques. And I spent a little bit of that in my
postdoc on a special data. Then I joined Park. So that's when like I started my
you know interest in deep learning systems and other things on a variety of
projects. That sounds like a lot of fun. And the
work that we're going to be digging into today is focused on an analysis of
the infrastructure to support alternative fuel vehicles. Can you talk more about
your research in that area and how that specific line of inquiry came to be?
Yeah so in that particular paper you're talking about I did the analysis on
hydrogen fueling stations. So are you aware of fuel cell vehicles?
At the super high level. Yeah but I'd love to hear your kind of take on where we are
with those. Okay so I drive one. That is all you need to know right now.
So they exist. They're out on the road. That is the genesis of why I started this
paper. So I got otherwise commercially called the hydrogen
car. So since I wanted to like you know I have a long drive from East Bay to Palo
Alto. So I kept driving on a gasoline vehicles. I was feeling guilty. So I wanted to
get a zero emissions vehicle right. Everybody was going for electric.
So since I worked on these different kinds of transportation technologies I
wanted to see like how would it be to drive a hydrogen car.
So that was how my research started you know then I got a hydrogen car.
So the way things vehicles go ahead you had some questions.
I will say that I did not associate fuel cell and hydrogen. I very ignorant in that area.
I thought when I think of fuel cell I associate that with alternative battery technology
like that we might see in phones or computers or even cars and hydrogen.
I don't know how I envisioned thus getting the hydrogen into the cars but I did not
associate that with fuel cell and I did not realize that they were
broadly available today. Yeah see you know something. I need exactly right
fuel cell are similar to batteries. So the fuel cells work in a way
battery does like what it works in a Tesla or a bolt except that you
give hydrogen to fuel cells and then they convert that to electricity and that drives the car.
So they are essentially electric cars but then they need hydrogen to produce the
electricity that's the only difference. Okay. So the way they work is you know
California is the pioneer in this technology so they have about like 32 or 35 hydrogen
stations all over the state and Bay Area and Southern California are big in this network.
They have multiple stations. That's one of the main criteria to buy or you know to
lease a hydrogen vehicle. So I will get to the machine learning part in a bit.
Meaning from a consumer perspective if I don't find a fueling station I'm probably not
going to want to buy one of these. Exactly. And I imagine it's it's not like an electric vehicle
where I can just get a box and attach it to my house and you know be able to charge my car.
The hydrogen infrastructure at the home is non-existent. You don't want that. And dangerous.
Yes. Yeah. Exactly right. So that's why having a public hydrogen station is very important
and having a reliable public hydrogen station is very very important.
Fortunately I live in Union City so there is one in Fremont and there's one in Hayward
and I work in Palo Alto and there's one in Mountain View at the time when I got the car.
So I was very excited. So the fueling system is very similar to gasoline. So I was doing that.
And then over a period of time I realized like some stations do really badly in these.
Like you go there and then suddenly there's no fuel or there's line or you know there's
all sorts of problems. And then the other stations I started to rely more and more.
And I was looking for some kind of data for this. Like is there a data driven reliability that I
can actually look up so that when I want to refuel I can go there directly. And there wasn't one.
So I started collecting the data. So their California fuel self partnership is the agency that
provides this real-time hydrogen availability data online. So I scraped that data for three months
from September, October to December of last year. Every hour. And I wanted to see the time series
and do all those things to analyze where I can go refuel or where anyone can go refuel.
So I did that and then I got you know so when you get a zero emission vehicle you get
rebate from the state. If you are buying a Tesla or a Bolt you can get about $2,500.
And if you're getting a hydrogen car you get about $5,000. And that data is available to the public
anonymized of course. But you can see who got the rebate at a zip code level at census track level
even. So you can get a sense for vehicle density by zip code or census tract. Exactly. So
putting two and two together. So I have this state you fuel consumption data that I collected
or for a period of three months and all I have to match it with the demand and see whether there is
a trend. Obviously there was a trend and you could actually see which stations lag behind
and which stations are overstressed. Like for example if you draw a linear relationship between
demand and supply I was able to visualize in this case Mountain View was not used by people.
So it confirmed my instincts that Mountain View sucks in like I mean the station stops.
So I was happy about that but then I don't know by my own instinct alone. So I did a survey of
100 fuel cell drivers. So we have this Facebook group of hydrogen car drivers that we
talked to each other and you know talk about the fueling difficulties or whatever.
So I put out the question to them. I asked what are some brief seven questions on like what's
their favorite location, what's their least favorite location, what are the things they find
difficult to or why they avoid the station and so on. It so happened that many of them picked
Mountain View as a least favorite station because the one thing I felt which was confirmed by others
it had a different setup than other stations. So and it wasn't user friendly that was something
you know we couldn't have guessed just by looking at the data. And also other things like
you know some stations are overstressed because there are a lot of people queuing up. So which
kind of gives an indication that the station capacity could be increased over time in those places.
So I wrote this paper initially to suggest that to policymakers you know having this kind of
continuous monitoring mechanism would be able to help your you know data driven decisions over time
whether you want to increase the station capacity or do you want to include a new station in that
area because it's overstressed or if there's something wrong going on with it if there's unsafe
location or something different fuel setup it'll be able to identify where it's going on and then
you can fix it. So that was an interesting paper. So once I did that so it was published in
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy and then there was another sister paper that's.
And that paper specifically is the one titled an integrated quantitative qualitative study
to monitor the utilization and assess the perception of hydrogen fueling stations.
Yeah. So I wanted to capture everything in one.
Yeah it was a very fun paper to write because it was based out of my personal experience and
it's full of affirmations like I was right. And here you kind of describe the setup and what your
data sources are. One thing that jumps out at me from your personal experience is that there are
two sides to the demand equation. There's where the cars live but there's also the other side of
the commute where you're going. Were you able to find any data to incorporate that side of the
demand equation into your analysis? Yes. So remember the survey I mentioned. So that was one of the
questions to the drivers. So where do they feel and what was the reason why they choose that station?
For me I wanted it to be close to home because that's where I rely most. So or on the way to commute.
It so happened that about 70% of the people who answered that why they picked the station was
proximity to their house. So that was my assumption as well and that kind of validated this.
And of course this is just a preliminary way of analyzing things and there's always like you
mentioned this demand traffic demand time of day events and all those things that could factor
into these things. But for the initial checking the station performance overall in a broad period of
time I think this might be okay. Okay. So yeah so if you go through the paper I mean there are
these details steps on how I transform the time series into one single metric and all those
details if you like. I can go back to that. And that's in the quantitative qualitative paper?
Yes. Yes. So this initial paper was kind of talking broadly about this problem and integrating
the both the quantitative approaches and the qualitative survey that you did but then you did
another paper that really focused in on the quantitative side and in particular the application
of machine learning to this problem or an application of machine learning to this problem.
Right. So since I have access to this spatial temporal data so it was rich in terms of like
whatever data I collected for three months so it's a very ripe data set to explore different
kinds of problems. In this case I wanted to see if I can do some kind of temporal clustering
to identify the signatures of the usage of these stations over time. So I used a temporal clustering
mechanism. So I was able to find out since I had access to the qualitative survey I was able to
even interpret the results that came out of this model. And so talk a little bit more about the
temporal clustering approach that you used. What exactly was your objective and what specific
techniques did you apply? So the objective was to identify if just by looking at the station
consumption will we be able to see whether can we group these stations into different categories
which the paper describes how it's being done. So I identified like five categories from
the signature of these temporal usage. So the method I followed is something called complexity
invariant temporal clustering. So I got this from a research paper. So the idea behind that is
for use cases and finance or anything any domain related temporal use cases you can actually
find the signatures and in terms of complexities. So you can do clustering of these signatures based
on that and I was able to find five groups of those. So one is the healthy range where we think
the stations perform pretty well. And then the other group is the overstressed where there are beings
you know a lot of people go there more than the predicted demand. And another is where the problem
stations where people do not go and they have a different standards of reporting and such.
And the other are like connector stations and the connector stations are those that are placed
somewhere in between the high demand and low demand stations. So this method I tried with different
kinds of clustering methods and this one the complexity invariant method seemed to perform well
and we were able to hierarchically group these stations into different categories.
Okay so you applied this clustering technique and you're specifically trying to cluster
in in time series and then use the these clusters to identify the specific essentially
categorize the types of fueling stations. Is that right? Yeah if you recall my previous paper so
that identified the relationship between supply and demand. So in this case we are just using
the supply side to identify any problem stations. So by problem stations I mean since I have the
survey data I can tell they are problem stations. So otherwise they are grouped into these different
categories different buckets of stations like there will be like majority of stations
falling into like healthy range bucket and then there there are these groups of five or six stations
that falling into overstressed or underperforming. So the interpretation comes from the qualitative
method that I did but then this involved performing the analysis even without involving the demand
of people. So even if the number of stations scale up in the future we don't have to worry about
who is buying where or who is refueling where that will answer your previous question as well.
So just by looking at the signature of these station usage we can see whether it's performing
in a healthy way or something is wrong with it. And you just referenced the qualitative survey
results but I'm noting the paper this particular paper that we're talking about is unsupervised
temporal clustering to monitor the performance of alternative fueling infrastructure.
So you but you so you didn't use the the qualitative results or of these stations as labels.
No no. Okay. Yeah no labeling done. So we're clustering the stations first and then the qualitative
part comes only in interpreting those clusters. You essentially created a way to
for a regulatory or a government agency or somebody that cares about this to just look at the time
series performance of these stations and their utilization and assess them. Yeah. So yeah exactly.
So the idea behind this is like California plans on installing 100 of these hydrogen stations
in a before 2025 right that's one of the plans to climate change goal plans. So if that's going
to happen we have to make sure people rely on these stations and that is a part of you know building
the reliability because one of the biggest fears like you mentioned earlier like if I have to buy
a hydrogen car it the proximity alone doesn't matter but I need to have a reliable station like if I
go there I need to be able to refuel that's one of the biggest fears behind adopting hydrogen
vehicles and that's the reason behind you know going after electric because you can charge at home.
So I think for you know reducing emissions we need to follow both technologies for diversity and to
adhere to compliance and adhere to follow reliable solutions or you know throw out reliable
solutions to public we need to have these kind of mechanisms in place and this is one of the projects
like I didn't see anything happening in the policy area and so once I wrote the paper I sent it
out to California fields of partnership and they were really interested in seeing this further.
That's awesome. That's awesome. It does track me that once the station is built it's a little bit too
late. Can you envision applying you know either the techniques similar to the ones you've written
about or other machine learning techniques to do this more predictively to for example determine
where the the next 50 to 70 station should go? I think it can happen because the stations are
pretty sparse right now so for example if if Fremont is having more traffic than usual then it
is it would be easy to identify where it's coming from and then you know the next station placement
can be made nearby so that it alleviates that or the station capacity can be increased pretty quickly
that doesn't need a lot of infrastructure cost so it is just a matter of delivering it more
frequently. So yeah so I think those are the low cost solutions that can help in the meantime
to help people adopt more zero emission vehicles. And you mentioned earlier in the conversation
I believe as one of your assumptions a linear relationship between
demand and consumption. Did your paper validate that assumption or did you challenge that assumption
within your research? So I did validate that I ran all the linear regression assumptions within
there but I also mentioned that within the paper since it's a sparse placement of stations maybe
this simple relationship is okay for now but as the add more the relationship might not be linear
so we have to be careful to extend this to future use cases if you know we can't just assume the
same factors will apply when we add more so it is a scalable solution but we need to be careful of
what we are doing. Cool so it sounds like this paper was in a lot of ways a passion project
but also ties into your research at part. Can you talk a little bit about the connection and more
broadly the types of research you're going after at the research center? Yeah so actually I have to
say this is completely my passion project it was not the one that I did at part and you can see why
right because I was getting frustrated with the station usage and such. So at part I have been
working on different kinds of projects so I'm within the machine learning group at part
and there are different kinds of labs you know one for computer vision natural language
you know sensor systems and we have printed electronics they're all part of hardware labs
so my favorite thing about that is I work horizontally across all these labs so I'm able to
pick and work on what I like so some of the interesting projects that I've done so far which
are not related to transportation or energy as I developed a graphic design art generation
using deep learning so we did that for a client who wanted to generate you know these designs fast
on a scalable basis so we had to deploy these deep learning models onto the cloud.
What kind of designs are we talking about? So I published or worked something called intricate
design intricate deep transfer design so it is like a similar to style transfer where we have
a painting and a content where you know the outcome would be a picture that looks like a painting
in this case I'm using a silhouette as a content and any pattern and in the place of design
style and then the outcome would be these patterns divided into new kind of chunks
so that the output looks abstract at the same time it fits the shape of the silhouette.
So if you look up I think there will be one called deep quilted Darth Vader which is one of my
signature words so I gave a quilt design and then Darth Vader's silhouette as a content and then
the output looks you know as if the quilt is stitched at the edges of the Darth Vader as if it's
quilted and it is different from cutting and pasting it because you know if you cut it the
finish won't be nice so we're using this kind of style transfer for that. There are other examples
also like this one more thing I did that has a stained glass effect like if you use a geometric
style it leads to a stained glass effect so I tried with different kinds of patterns and that was
one of my pioneer projects at park so you know you can see like I worked on different kinds of
domains there and I also remember you're also a comic artist so this is also tying into your
passions. Yeah exactly yeah so yeah art is something so the way I say it like two things stick me
it's math and art so this was very cool because I was able to combine two of these things.
You mentioned a client came to you are there commercial applications that you can talk about of
this kind of work? Yeah so the client is a Xerox company so they wanted they are like marketing
designed company so they wanted to see if they can produce personalized designs
depending on the color or graphic types and such so and they really liked it because it was
able to do that those things so if you have a logo you'll be able to generate something
personalized to you that is the idea behind this. Yeah and you also worked with more projects
in the computer vision group on in an augmented reality assistant so I designed an object detection
algorithm for them and also with the dialogue systems in the with the chat group and currently
I'm putting together my research agenda to do the combined work of you know hardware and software
expertise within park so the idea is to create so at hardware labs we produce a lot of sensors
printed electronics and such so I'm exploring to see how we can use those technologies with machine
learning and you know it can be applied in immediate use cases but I'm looking at energy and climate
areas and you have some kind of visibility into or specific ideas into how they apply to energy
and climate that you can share with us. For now we are just exploring things but there could be
any number of use cases right for example agriculture is a big one so if you have so park does
a lot of low cost sensors so it can be combined with machine learning to identify what are the
some crops that can be grown in a specific region or even in a we have a project on carbon
capture so you know we can use all these carbon sensors humidity sensors and temperature sensors
to identify where are the right locations for those and how can we verify that carbon is being
captured and so on so it is still very very new like it's in the ideation phase so I'm still
putting together a lot of things and of course transportation is a big one among them as well
so we are we are trying to see so there is freedom to do set our own to search agenda at park
within reason so that it has you know relevant business use cases too so I'm trying to match those
two together sounds like a fun place to be yeah it's great a lot of smart people
yeah and people some people have been there since the 1970s since park was formed so it's great
to have all their wisdom yeah so it's very nice to be there awesome awesome well collide thanks so
much for taking the time to chat with us about what you're up to yeah thank you so much some thanks
for having me all right everyone that's our show for today for more information on this guest or
any of our guests visit twimmelai.com be sure to register for twimmelcon AI platforms today
you can do that at twimmelcon.com as always thanks so much for listening and catch you next time
