Welcome to the Tumel AI Podcast. I'm your host, Sam Charrington.
Alright everyone, I am on the line with Cameron Khan. Cameron is founder and CEO of Blue Dot,
as well as a professor of medicine and public health at the University of Toronto.
Cameron, welcome to the Tumel AI Podcast. Thanks for having me. It's great to be here.
It is really, really exciting to chat with you. So you originally came on our radar as a result
of a wired article that came out not too long ago about how your company Blue Dot used AI to
be among the first to warn about the coronavirus. You probably have much more precise words
around exactly what the role that your company is playing in that. But let's start out by having
you share a little bit about your background and what brought you to apply machine learning
and artificial intelligence to this problem of early identification and warning of diseases.
Yeah, for sure. So maybe I'll start out by just providing a little bit of background about
myself and ultimately what was the motivation for this work. So, you know, I'm a practicing
infectious disease physician. I, you know, still just seeing a bunch of patients this morning with
tuberculosis and managing that and I'm originally from Toronto. You know, I did my medical school
training here. But I specialized in infectious diseases and public health and I was down in New
York finishing up my training in 2002 and then moved back to Toronto just before the SARS outbreak
happened. So Toronto, as I mentioned, is where I grew up and home. When I got here, you know,
shortly after arriving, we had this outbreak of the SARS coronavirus 17 years ago and it was
something that we didn't really even know what it was until it showed up in our hospitals in our
city. And as a physician specialized in infectious diseases and in public health, you know,
if I didn't know what this was, I don't know how anyone else would know what it was. And so it
really became apparent that we need better systems to be able to detect and anticipate how infectious
diseases might emerge and spread and we know that they do that really quickly. The reason why
this was such a profound event for me personally was, you know, I got to see the impact of SARS on
our city really in a up close and kind of personal way. One of my colleagues got infected with SARS
and we had other healthcare workers who got SARS and who actually died. We had 44 deaths. We had
an outbreak involving over 250 people that went on for four very long months. Oh wow.
And so you can just imagine the amount of mental and emotional fatigue that sets into your
healthcare workforce. When day in and day out, you're trying to confront this thing. There's a
lot of personal protective equipment and gear that you got to be working and wearing in your
environment. And you know, there's always the concern that, you know, would you potentially get
this next? And are you going to take it back home to your family? So there was certainly an enormous
amount of concern there. We saw our hospitals completely overwhelmed. They went into lockdown.
All elective procedures were canceled. Our public health system was overwhelmed. And even the city
took on a different feel. It was one where, you know, people stopped traveling to Toronto.
So we didn't have the same kinds of people gathering. You know, there were billions in financial
losses to the city. So this was a really profound event. And if we take a look at the big picture,
Toronto was just one of dozens of cities around the world that were going through this outbreak,
Singapore and Hong Kong and Taipei and others. In fact, these are some of the cities right now that
are experiencing outbreaks of this new coronavirus. So for me, I think one of the key things
really at that point was we need a better system. We need a better system to be able to detect
outbreaks more quickly. We need a better system to be able to anticipate how they would spread.
And we need a mechanism to be able to rapidly communicate that information.
Was Toronto unique among North American cities in the impact of the SARS virus? I remember,
obviously, hearing about it at the time, but it didn't feel nearly as personal. I'm based in St.
Louis, but travel extensively to New York and San Francisco and other cities in the US.
So there were actually dozens of imported cases of SARS into North America.
It just so happened, and this is a point that maybe I'll come back to later on that in Toronto,
one of the cases led to a whole bunch of other cases and triggered an outbreak.
In many of the other cities, the cases were identified, quickly isolated, and there wasn't secondary
transmission that went on to lead to a broader outbreak. So Vancouver had cases in Canada,
and there were a bunch of US cities that had travelers who were infected with SARS, but it did
not trigger an ongoing outbreak. So Toronto was one of those places where we had an outbreak that
everyone heard about simply because we had case after case going on over a four-month period.
And you refer to it as the SARS coronavirus. What's the relationship between SARS and
coronavirus? Or maybe just define coronavirus? Is it a part of a category of viruses?
So, coronavirus is there are sort of two groups. First of all, the coronavirus is largely because
of the way the virus looks. It almost looks a bit like a child drawing a picture of the sun
with these kind of surface proteins that go out. And there are two broad categories.
Coronavirus can just cause the common cold. So these are not that unusual. But there are novel
coronaviruses, new coronaviruses that may have made the leap from animals into humans. And there
are two other ones prior to this. SARS back in 2003, which we think probably came from civet cats,
maybe originally from bats to an intermediate animal and then over to humans. And then MERS,
which is the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, that really came on the scene in 2012,
has mostly been in the Middle East around, centered mostly around Saudi Arabia. And that's
another coronavirus that's thought to actually originate from camels and then has spread to humans
and causes severe respiratory illness as well. The animal that is the source of this new coronavirus
is still being evaluated. You know, the Pangolin is one of the candidate animals that is being
discussed. But genetically, this is, you know, almost 80% similar to the SARS coronavirus. So they
sort of fall into the same family. You could almost think of them a bit like being cousins, if you
will, related in many ways genetically. And so the virus came about via mutation, I would imagine.
Is that the right term? Is that how these viruses get started? Not necessarily a mutation per se,
but what happens is they have a, what we call a zoonotic spillover. And what I mean by that is,
this virus is found in an animal, a human comes in contact with the virus and it just so happens
that the virus is sufficiently adapted to be able to replicate in human cells and then ultimately
become a human pathogen or a human disease. So that is, you know, this is similar to what we saw
during the SARS coronavirus. In fact, there's a bit of deja vu with this story here, which is,
if we look back to 2003, this was a pneumonia that developed in association with presumably
exposure to a live animal market that then triggered that outbreak. And here we are again,
17 years later, with another coronavirus associated with a live animal market that is now
created the next outbreak. And this one has, you know, some similarities and some differences from
SARS, but certainly is a much larger outbreak. It has now surpassed SARS, you know, many fold in
terms of number of cases. And even now the total number of deaths has surpassed what we saw in 2003
with the SARS outbreak. Talk a little bit about the role of early warning and the importance of
or the motivation for what you're doing at Blue Dot. Let me just tell you a little bit about the
the kind of evolution. So first of all, as I mentioned, I'm a practicing physician. I'm an
epidemiologist by training. So after the SARS outbreak ended, you know, one of the things that
first came to my mind was let's not do this again. Let's think about another way that perhaps we
could better anticipate this. And I spent the next 10 years as a scientist and as a professor at the
University of Toronto studying outbreaks trying to understand, are there ways that we could better
anticipate how these diseases spread around the world? Now we know that ultimately these diseases
that affect humans are spread by the movements of humans. And the long distant movements of people
this generally occurs through commercial air travel around the world and this network, which is
you know, it's not even 100 years old of commercial air travel has really transformed how people
move around the world and ultimately how microbes move around the world. So I spent, you know,
the next 10 years studying that and realized from various outbreaks that you actually could start
to potentially anticipate how these diseases would spread. I started working with billions of
anonymized passenger flight itinerary tickets and sales and those types of data. You know,
it kind of dawned on me that I could learn and understand that C-164 or 16B or something was
available and 16A was taken. There had to be some kind of data system that was accounting for all
of these types of transactions and after studying a little bit of the information systems in the
airlines, realized that there were billions of ticket sales data that actually could be utilized
to understand how the whole world is connected and how people are moving around the planet.
So after doing that for 10 years and realizing that there was some rhyme and reason to all of this,
um, started thinking more and more about how do we move quickly? In the academic world,
um, you know, when we publish in the scientific literature, it's a pretty lengthy process and it
often takes months or, you know, maybe even in some cases even take years to conduct a scientific
study, generate the results, submit it for peer review by the scientific community, have that
reviewed if the article is rejected, do it again, if it's accepted, it goes to the editors,
they review it and so on and so forth. And that's a fairly lengthy process.
Um, but of course, the diseases don't wait for the reviewers to review the science,
they spread in hours and days. And so we needed a better system, one that was more agile to be
able to respond to this. And that was for me the motivation for, uh, founding blue dot and creating
this as a digital health company. Um, I will clearly say I am not a serial entrepreneur who's
done this 20 times. I had never even imagined creating a company. If someone had said that to me
when I was going through medical school, I would have thought I was some kind of joke,
but ultimately really what I was trying to do was to solve a problem. And, uh, you know,
we have a number of organizations here in Toronto, maybe similar in in in St. Louis or other parts
of the United States that are really here to start supporting, um, an entrepreneurial spirit,
amongst those in the university system to say, well, maybe you can take a leap of faith and maybe
you can accelerate that discovery and scale the implementation of discovery, uh, using business
as a vehicle to do that. So, so that was the motivation behind launching blue dot. And what I will
say is that we have been for the last six and a half years building, uh, what we call a global
early warning system for infectious diseases. And I'll be happy to, you know, uh, um, to kind of
describe what that is and how we use data and things like machine learning and and other types of,
analytical approaches and and pieces of technology to build a system that can detect outbreaks,
faster than we have in the past, uh, assess how they might spread around the world and what the
consequences might be and then actually generate information to disseminate it. So we're literally
spreading insights and knowledge about the disease faster than the disease is spreading itself.
So that's really been our overarching, uh, approach, uh, in in terms of how we have been thinking
about infectious diseases, not just big outbreaks like the current coronavirus, but, you know,
we're dealing with the resurgence of measles. We're dealing with, you know,
Lyme disease expanding. We are, we're dealing with a world, unfortunately, a world of infectious
diseases where outbreaks and these threats are becoming more frequent. The outbreaks are becoming
larger and they're having larger and larger and more disruptive consequences. Let's definitely
talk a little bit more about how your technology is applied to identifying and warning about the
spread of these diseases. You mentioned that one of the data sets you started looking at was this
airline data. I can imagine how that can tell you a lot about the spread of the disease. A lot
more than it would tell you help you identify new outbreaks. Uh, so presumably there are other
datasets that you're using and have access to to help with that. Absolutely. Let me break it down
into kind of four chunks, if you will. The first thing is surveillance and it's picking up information
about what's happening and what threats may be occurring and those threats could come from
mother nature. They could come from accidents in the lab. They could come from deliberate
acts of terrorism. So there are many different ways that outbreaks it can begin. So I'm going to
come back and I'll take a deeper dive into surveillance and sort of detection of threats.
The second piece is understanding dispersion and, you know, as I mentioned, humans are the vectors
that move these diseases around the world now in these, you know, planes that fly all across
the planet. We have the ability to travel in ways that are completely unprecedented across the
you know, circumnavigate the entire globe in, you know, 24 hours. The third piece after dispersion
is impact. What is the impact of a disease spreading from Geography A to Geography B?
Does that disease, does that particular microbe of the virus? Does it have the ability to
trigger a new outbreak or is it going to arrive in an area and just fizzle out and disappear?
The metaphor I might use there is if you think about outbreaks and infectious disease threats
is a bit like a fire. And the fires, you know, have embers flying off them and those embers might
land on concrete and fizzle out and nothing happens or they might land on, you know, a pile of dry
leaves and now you got the next fire going on. Outbreaks are really the same. So what we are
using and I'll talk about this are using things like machine learning and AI to detect outbreaks
faster. We are using other data sets on how populations move around the world, including air
travel data, including, you know, in large numbers, anonymized data from hundreds of millions
of mobile devices and location data around the world. We're using data from satellites, for example,
as well as a whole bunch of other data in real time to understand, does this microbe in this
geography at this time have the ingredients to trigger an outbreak or not? You know, I'm here in
Toronto right now in February and it's about minus 20 outside their minus 20 Celsius. So I don't
know what that is in Fahrenheit, but it's pretty darn cold. So if you've got a disease that's
spread through a mosquito or a tick, it's not going anywhere right now. But if it was in Singapore
or somewhere else, you know, maybe it's 30 Celsius there right now in humid and so forth,
um, that might be the right environment at the right time for an outbreak to propagate. Got it.
And the fourth piece is ultimately about communication. How do we get information into the hands of
people in a way that it does not overwhelm them and is consumable and meaningful to them? So
this is really important. I'll just say a couple words about it is, you know, if we keep sending
everyone information about every thread in the world, you know, we we result with information
overload. We just basically overwhelm people and then they just start to tune it out because it's
not relevant to them. There's a professor at NYU Clay Sharkey is his name and he he sometimes talks
about, um, hey, we shouldn't be talking about information overload. We should be talking about
filter failure and so we often think about that. Well, what do I need to know in Toronto that's relevant
to me right now? If it's relevant to someone in, uh, in Beijing, well, they should get the information
that's relevant to them. I don't need to know that right now. So I'm going to talk a little bit
about that, um, as we sort of go through. But why don't I start out by just describing a little
bit on the surveillance side and how we gather information about, uh, outbreaks and threats?
Please. So one of the things that we learned during the SARS outbreak was that if we rely on
government agencies to report information about outbreaks, we may not be getting the information
that we need in the most timely manner. Um, and that is even though there is a treaty called the
international health regulations that countries around the world are bound to, um, they, you know,
this is a treaty based on goodwill. There's no enforcement. The idea is that if countries have said,
okay, if we're having an unusual outbreak, we're going to report it rapidly to the World Health
Organization. Is there issue more that there's, you know, dysfunction within the information
gathering and collecting or more that they, you know, are protecting their interests by not, uh,
communicating about it? It could be a combination of the above and it depends in a country that has
got really limited resources in a weak public health and health care system. It may be that they
don't actually even know what's happening. Um, but as you can imagine in other situations,
a country realizes that once it makes a statement about an outbreak that is, uh, serious,
there will inevitably be serious economic consequences that follow.
Um, so, you know, it gives, I can understand and appreciate that it would give, uh,
some pause to, you know, reporting. And so that could lead to some delays. And when you're dealing
with an outbreak and putting it out, it's just like a fire. The sooner you know about it, the,
the better the chances are that you can actually extinguish it. So what we learned there was that
we can't rely just on official information coming from governments. And so there has been an
entire field that has developed to say, um, to, to really realize that the internet itself
can be an important medium for gathering epidemic intelligence or information about outbreaks
around the world. And it comes through all these different forums, um, local journalists from
around the world sometimes write about things that they're witnessing or hearing in their
own backyard. And it may be that that actually is published even before the government is aware of
it or before the government has said anything about it. Um, there are forums that have been developed
for the public health and healthcare community around the world to contribute information about
things that they may be seeing, uh, in their own area. They can do so anonymously. They can provide
their information. Um, but all of this information is coming in a very unstructured form. It's in text
and it's in Chinese and Portuguese and Spanish and Russian and Arabic and so forth.
Mm hmm. So if you basically had a human review this, well, first of all, it wouldn't be possible.
There's just the amount of information is, is massive. Um, and you'd need a team of 100 people
to be reading in all these languages and kind of filtering through the, is this relevant?
Does this make sense? Does it not? Um, and so one of the things that we did first, you know,
at Bludon started doing, um, is building a system that can gather intelligence from all these
disparate sources to gather all the information that is being reported officially by government
agencies around the world, like the CDC, like the World Health Organization, but also organizations
that are responsible for animal health, like the World Organization for Animal Health,
Food and Agricultural Organization of the UN, because many of these diseases have their origins
in animals. They start in animals and spill over into human. So, so on one hand, we're gathering
all that official information, but then we have developed an engine that is looking for over 150
different diseases around the world, plus syndromes like, you know, an unusual pneumonia or a
hemorrhagic fever or some other undiagnosed illness. Um, and so we have built an engine that is
basically looking at over 100,000 articles online every day in 65 languages looking for outbreaks
with involving over 150 diseases and, and it's doing this every 15 minutes 24 hours a day.
Does this mean that a disease has to be well defined, uh, in order for you to identify it?
So, there's two ways we do it. One is we actually look at the name of the disease and then there are,
there's the kind of microbiological name of the disease and then there's kind of the lay name of
the disease, you know, and then there are, uh, sometimes syndromes where it's just somebody had a
respiratory syndrome or a pneumonia of unclear origin and we'll talk about that in relation to
this coronavirus. So we've, we've developed a whole taxonomy that actually is kind of mapped out
what all these things are and then we basically kind of have our system scanning all these various
different sources, uh, looking for those key words, um, but as you could, and, uh, and also translating
that information using things like Google translate into English, but as you can imagine, uh, you know,
the joke we sometimes use is, I didn't know there was a heavy metal band called anthrax until our
system started kind of picking up stuff, but, but that's, that's not, you know, relevant to us.
Right, the very noisy world out there. It is pun, uh, you know, partially intended, I imagine
there, uh, noisy world and, and it's a signal to noise problem, right? So we've got, all right,
well, we have massive haystack, uh, where do we find the needles in the haystack?
And so ultimately what we've done is we've used natural language processing and machine learning,
and so on one hand we've had our subject matter experts, our epidemiologists and our physicians
and so forth, classifying this information manually, thousands and thousands and thousands of
times, and then ultimately using machine learning and natural language processing to then start to
learn and replicate human behavior around, well, look, that's about the heavy metal band anthrax.
Let's put that into the category we don't need to know about it or this is about a new antibiotic
or a new vaccine being developed for anthrax. Okay, that's interesting and it's about anthrax,
but it's not actually about an outbreak. And then here are, you know, anthrax, uh, outbreak is
happening in Mongolia at this point in time. That's important. So we've done a lot of that classification
and ultimately then use machine learning and natural language processing to be able to organize
and structure vast amounts of data that is not really possible for a human to do.
So just to say with respect to this coronavirus outbreak, what happened on December 31st,
I guess when people were perhaps thinking about their plans for, for New Year's Eve and,
and, you know, welcoming a new decade, our engine picked up some articles in Chinese early
morning, December 31st that talked about a pneumonia and it seemed to be associated with this
market where seafood and live animals were sold in Wuhan and that there were 27 cases and it
was a pneumonia without a known cause. Didn't seem to be kind of typical causes you might see
for a pneumonia. And so, you know, at that moment, it had translated into English and the machine
flagged this as out of these 100,000 or so articles a day generally presents us with about five
things to pay attention to. And so we then, so the machine AI and this engine is not supplanting
human decisions, it's augmenting human decisions. So it kind of presents it to us as the subject
matter experts. And then we look at them and have a brief conversation and we said here was,
okay, we don't know that this is actually going to become really big, but it has the same
ingredients as what we saw during the SARS outbreak 17 years ago. Nimonia, unclear origin,
seems to be associated with an animal market. We've seen this before. So let's pay attention to it.
So the thing that we did ultimately next is after our team of experts looked at it and then we
just make a decision, does this look plausible or is there something unusual about the story
and we need to corroborate it before we go any further. So it seemed plausible to us.
Once we actually put it into our overall, you know, our large repository of data,
this is where GIS comes in. This is like geographic information system. So once the location of
Wuhan came in, our team of geographers have developed a system that can identify the locations
of nearby airports to see how far away they are, where my travelers go to, which airport would they
choose. I won't bore you with all the details of the modeling there. But ultimately to say
is that we can assign certain probabilities if people are going to use various airports.
And then we automatically then, within a second, connect to the entire world's ticket sales data
to understand how travelers are moving from that location to destinations all over the world.
This analysis or this last step that you're describing isn't based on kind of historical flows,
but you're looking at kind of real-time actual tickets out of Wuhan or whatever the closest airport
is to other airports. So there's a combination of data that comes with flights and information
on dispersion. And we kind of work with three different types of data. Number one is data
on the flight schedules of the actual aircraft in advance. So if you're booking a ticket,
you can book up to a year in advance. So we can see all the flight schedules that are happening.
Second is the actual passenger itineraries themselves. But those data come after the passenger has
traveled. And then the airline compiles it. So there is a little bit of a lag and a little bit of
a delay there. And then we also work with data that's anonymized. Again, I want to underscore that.
But it's about 400 million mobile devices and the locations of the mobile devices. Because we
know that not everyone necessarily travels by air, but populations may move across land borders
or in other ways. And so the three different types of data sets allow us to gauge and understand
how populations may be moving. So in this instance, what we did was we connected to our flight and
passenger flight itinerary data to see what are the typical flows of travelers from that location
and that particular time of year to destinations around the world. We did that and these are also,
there are about four billion tickets per year and it's all the various connection points that
doesn't it's not following the aircraft. It's actually following the movements of the travelers
through all of the connecting points across this network. So we did that and within a second had
been able to identify all of the final destinations that received the most travelers.
And then the last stage that sort of kicks in here was we once we actually have done those
analyses, the places that are receiving the highest volume of travelers are ones that we push a
notification to that gives them a synopsis of what has been reported and what we know about it
at this point in a sense. We're just literally trying to spread the information ahead of the disease
so that the health officials in those locations would have an early warning. The healthcare providers
in hospitals could get an early warning and even certain businesses and we tend to work with
airlines could also receive notification because again, they're an important stakeholder when it
comes to various outbreaks. So that's kind of a bit of a continuum of going from early detection,
human verification and assessment, connection to information on the world's air travel,
identifying the destinations that are most at risk and then literally pushing the information
to our clients. And we do that in three real categories. One, are government agencies that work
in public health, that work in national defense, national security, and even in agriculture
because many diseases, African swine fever is a good example of a disease that doesn't affect
humans but can really have a huge impact on swine and can affect food security and have other
economic consequences. So that's one set of clients in different branches of government.
As a physician who is practicing and who gets called down to the emergency room to see patients,
I know what's really important and where we don't really have a robust system today is that
we need to get this intelligence not just to the public health department but to the emergency
department because that's where patients go. And we assume that our physicians and nurses and
other frontline healthcare workers are going to be able to recognize diseases that they may have
never seen before and maybe never heard of before. But that is a very big ask. It is difficult to
ask your frontline healthcare workers to be able to do that when they've never seen these diseases
before. But we rely upon them to do that because we need them to do so so they can protect themselves.
So they don't end up getting infected or dying in the line of work that they can better protect
their patients. They can prevent outbreaks in hospitals that can paralyze the whole hospital like we
saw during SARS and even they can prevent outbreaks from spilling over into the community that could
cripple an entire city. So there's a lot that weighs on just like when we talked about SARS earlier,
Toronto was one place where we had a big outbreak but many of the other places, the cases were
quickly identified, isolated and no secondary cases actually happened in those instances.
And so it's really important for us to be able to make sure that our healthcare workers have
these kinds of insights. Does your system make any attempts to project forward?
From today, let's say given what we know about the coronavirus, what's likely to happen
over relatively longer periods of time, weeks, months, that type of thing. I imagine it's
difficult to do given you have all different scenarios and interventions taking place, but yeah.
Well, let me just say we're not just really focusing on detection. We're focusing on anticipation.
We want to be able to help individuals and organizations anticipate what might happen next.
So when I think back to the early detection of the coronavirus on December 31st,
we had actually published in the scientific literature the cities that we had identified as being
at greatest risk of spread of this coronavirus. So that if you actually go to the Journal of
Travel Medicine, it was published on January 14th. And what we had actually identified was a lot
of the cities that were the first cities to receive the coronavirus as it spread out of China.
Tokyo, Bangkok, Hong Kong, Seoul, Taipei, et cetera. And that list is there
to demonstrate what we had analyzed using our data. So in that case, we are looking forward
in trying to project and anticipate. Today, because you highlighted that the situation is so fluid
and it is so rapidly evolving and adapting day to day, you can have thousands of new cases
and so this is where we have been working more with these hundreds of millions of mobile device
location data that are aggregated, again, anonymized, aggregated, but enabling us to in near
real time understand how populations may be moving around the world so we can better anticipate how
the disease might spread. So we are doing that on an ongoing basis. But it's a bit like,
you know, if you think of weather forecasting, we might get a pretty good chance of understanding
what's going to happen tomorrow or the day after. But if we start talking weeks or months ahead,
you know, our precision is not going to be as great because there's an enormous amount of
stochasticity and randomness that happens. And so ultimately, what we really tend to do is focus
on iterative short-term projections and ones that are adaptive to an evolving situation.
You know, it's rapidly evolving circumstances. So we are always looking ahead and trying to
identify and anticipate what some of the next moves might be because ultimately, the health community
has a finite amount of resources, health and human resources. And we've got to think about where
we use those resources in the way that has maximum benefit either to prevent the spread of a disease
or failing that at least slow the spread of the disease down.
You mentioned that anticipation is one of the things that you're trying to do. Does that
include identifying outbreaks before they happen? Kind of the initial outbreaks before they happen.
You know, whether it's conditions that become, you know, ripe for the transfer of a disease
from an animal to humans, that kind of thing. Well, let me just say that in terms of anticipating
outbreaks before they happen, there's different levels. There is the anticipating the emergence
of a brand new disease that no one has ever seen before. We do not do that. There are other groups
that are out there in the world cataloging viruses and nature and trying to think about,
well, where might the next outbreak occur of a disease we've never seen before?
That's obviously incredibly difficult work and very, very difficult to anticipate.
But what we do is we do anticipate the next place that may experience an outbreak before it has.
So let me just give you an example going back to 2016 and the Zika virus outbreak. You might
remember that was one of the last big global public health emergencies. And what we had done back
in that outbreak was working with a number of some of our academic colleagues. We had mapped out
where Zika virus activity was most likely to be occurring in Brazil. And I want to explain
when I say most likely, why would I say that? Well, when you have a brand new disease emerge
on the scene, you don't typically have a diagnostic test for that because it's a brand new
disease and you still have to develop it. So in many cases, when you're dealing with a new disease,
you don't actually have the ability to understand where it is. And we see the same situation here
in China. We have some understanding, but there's a lot of information we don't have.
So in the case of Zika virus, we had to combine data on the mosquito that transmits Zika virus
on temperature that would identify where the virus was most likely to circulate because the
environment was optimal for that transmission to occur. When we did that, we looked at all the
locations around those particular areas and how travelers were moving to different parts of the
world. This is important because Zika virus is a disease of primates and humans, so the virus
replicates in the human body in the bloodstream. And when a traveler goes to another location,
they infect a mosquito and that mosquito, when the mosquito bites them, the mosquito becomes
infected and the mosquito then transmits it onwards. The mosquitoes didn't fly from Brazil to Florida,
for example. It was the people that did and infected the mosquitoes locally. So we had napped that
out in 2016 and published that in the Lancet, which is one of the scientific journals,
British scientific journal, in early 2016 and I had identified that Florida was really a place
that looked like it was at high risk of experiencing an outbreak because of the large numbers of
travelers coming from areas of Brazil that were most likely where Zika was circulating because
it had the mosquito that transmits Zika virus because the temperature was optimal for local
outbreak and we had done that six months before the outbreak actually appeared in Florida.
So that's an example of being able to anticipate something before it actually happens.
The last thing I'll just say about that is there are instances now where we can sometimes
infer based on some of our data and analytics that outbreaks might be happening in places that
haven't yet even identified them. So when we see lots of connectivity of travelers between
locations where there's an outbreak occurring in one place and not in another and some of those
environments are places that have weak public health systems, they're poor countries, we can
sometimes identify or recognize that there's a high risk of an outbreak occurring in that location
even if it's not necessarily recognized. So it helps us direct our surveillance on the ground
surveillance activities to places that are at significant risk.
There's some criticism of the the approach that you're taking from the perspective of
you know the predictions like this are difficult and maybe you got lucky a few times and that
you know it's kind of reported very broadly as AI being the solution to you know epidemics,
pandemics. You know I'm wondering both if you have any general comments on those types of
critiques but more specifically what are the limitations of the approaches that you're bringing to
bear on these challenges? Well let me just say that you know we certainly by no means would claim
that AI has you know got this problem solved it's just one of the tools in the toolbox that's all
it's just another it's not the the end it's the means to it's a mechanism that we can make sense
of data in ways that if we did it manually it would be incredibly labor intensive and really slow
and inefficient. You know as I said when it comes to surveillance if we if we did this manually we
did 100 people are more doing this around the clock. Well we have four four people and a machine
that managed to do this and we're tracking not every not only you know how this COVID-19 this
coronavirus outbreak is spreading but we're also mapping continuously now all these other 150
different diseases around the world. So in the way humans can get distracted a machine doesn't
necessarily have to be distracted. So it is a tool that can help us it doesn't it's not the
solution it doesn't solve every problem. I think the other thing in terms of limitations and
it is very important is that you know machine learning requires large amounts of data to then
actually make sense of of this and be able to predict based on observing various outcomes over
and over again it requires data that is structured appropriately so the machine can consume it and
develop predictive algorithms. But when we are dealing with these types of infectious disease
threats they're often isn't the data is often not there and so we have to use a combination of
approaches. Again this is why I say machine learning and other kind of AI modalities are just
in another tool in the toolbox. So we may have to resort to epidemiological approaches in
different types of models versus machine learning models because we don't have hundreds of
thousands of observations that we can then use to develop a model. So I think it is I would 100
percent agree it is not the silver bullet this doesn't do everything but it is a powerful tool
that allows us to derive insights from vast amounts of data and do so in ways that are far
more efficient than humans can do and to allow us to do things in a scalable and timely manner.
Ultimately what we have trained our system due today when it comes to surveillance and we're
exploring many different other applications for machine learning but in this case what we're
talking about is processing vast amounts of data that humans couldn't possibly do realistically
because we have to sleep and we don't speak 100 languages and but ultimately these are I would
describe them as relatively low complexity tasks but they're incredibly high volume and there's
an enormous amount of them so we can just simply train a machine to replicate our judgment we don't
have to give it a set of rules to tell it if this then that we can just basically classify things
over and over again and ultimately have the machine kind of replicate our judgment if you will
about how we classify something and and then ultimately do a whole bunch of other things eliminate
duplicates tell us that these stories are speaking about the same thing you know so that we're
not dealing with a hundred thousand articles we're dealing with five events so there are lots of
ways that these types of tools can augment our ability to detect assess and respond to these threats.
Kind of tangentially what have you learned about building an organization that depends on
these two highly skilled you know skill sets the physicians and epidemiologists and the
data scientists machine learning engineers and getting them to work well together and building
systems that kind of capture you know what both are good at. You know it's a really really good point
and I'm glad you brought it up I think it tells us a couple of things and you know we've heard this
many other times but it really rings true to me that diversity is essential to tackle these
kinds of complex problems and I don't necessarily mean you know ethnic diversity or gender
I'm talking about more broadly diversity of mindset the diversity of skills the diversity of
perspectives and even the languages that we speak and I don't mean you know in French or Spanish
but you know some of our mathematicians will will speak in differential equations as they think
through a problem and physicians have their own language and epidemiologists speak another
language and what you need is you need to bring people like this together in one place where they
can learn from one another and this doesn't happen overnight it happens over years and so you
mentioned I think in our pre-call conversation that you've got even veterinarians on your team.
That's correct yeah physicians who practice and specialize in infectious diseases, veterinarians,
epidemiologists, ecologists that think about insects and other diseases that affect you know
non-human species we have geographers, a data scientist, engineer, software developers,
designers etc and so it is we are a deliberately eclectic group of people with a very diverse set
of skills because we can't throw a thousand physicians into the room and solve this problem or
a thousand epidemiologists or a thousand data scientists it requires that diversity of skills so
that I think is something that is an important and kind of a special feature of this organization
and we all operate under one roof so we are not you know working remotely through email
we are literally solving problems face to face day in and day out and so six and a half years
later we have really learned about each other's perspectives and have become quite good at
integrating these various perspectives to tackle problems in ways that maybe have never been
approached before and develop these kinds of solutions it also happens to say is enormously fun
if that's the word I should use just to say just imagine you know people like hackathons
we're like one big hackathon you know day in and day out constantly iterating you know
we have an ecologist speaking to a data scientist to a physician to a designer one day and the next
day it's a completely different mix because there's another solution or another problem has to be
tackled so the amount of peer to peer learning that happens is pretty incredible but also a lot
of creativity comes at the intersection of all these different disciplines that you know maybe
have never been explored before awesome well Cameron thanks so much for taking the time to chat
with us share a bit about what you're up to and you know frankly educate us a bit on coronavirus
and how AI is helping to identify and prevent its dispersion yeah well thank you Sam I appreciate
the the opportunity to chat on this forum today so thanks for having me thank you all right
everyone that's our show for today for more information on today's show visit twomolai.com slash
shows as always thanks so much for listening and catch you next time
