Welcome to the Tumel AI Podcast. I'm your host, Sam Charrington.
Alright everyone, I am on the line with Manuela Veloso. Manuela is the head of AI Research
at JP Morgan Chase and a professor at Carnegie Mellon University. Manuela, welcome to the
Tumel AI Podcast. Yeah, it's great to be here. Thanks for having me.
Absolutely. It is wonderful to get a chance to speak with you. You are currently in New
York City where you are recording this from your home on lockdown. How are things there?
So again, we are on lockdown. I'm in the apartment. I've been here for three weeks but surprisingly
I continue to be very productive in terms of work because with all of our virtual meetings
everything seems to be going quite well. What is challenging is to exercise and to make
sure that you get some fresh air and some sun. But from the work point of view, I miss my
team but we have a lot of Zoom meetings. It seems to be very successful.
Did you work from home quite a bit beforehand or is this a transition for you?
So Sam, I came to the United States in 1984 and I've never worked from home ever.
Wow. I know. I know. I know. I mean, it was like these like, you know, getting up in
the morning, making your bed, getting ready and just leave every morning and then come
back in the evening. So this is quite new to me to be here at home every day but somehow
it says it's been working. Are you finding yourself more or less productive
than like, how do you compare your level of productivity with this new way of working?
I think that with the setup we created at JP Morgan in which we try to have a lot of
meetings so that eventually we see each other as often as possible. I think it's working
fine. I'm not 100% sure in three weeks if we are still in the same productive chain.
But I think we have been quite productive. I mean, more than what I thought the first
couple of days, I thought why that I would like be eating all day in the kitchen or doing
my laundry or something. What is this of being home? But no, I mean, my office, I have the
computer and I'm literally in my office from, you know, 18 in the morning to 16 in the afternoon.
So I'm glad to hear that everything is going well on your end. Thank you. Why don't we jump
into your background? You are currently on leave from current email and CMU where you
were faculty in the Department of Computer Science. Tell us a little bit about your background,
how you got involved and interested and involved in machine learning research and your
kind of broad research interests. Yeah. Yeah. So this is like a very nice to explain. So somehow
as a kid, I got very much interested in math. Math was really what I like. arithmetic
from arithmetic all the way to calculus or everything. Math is what I wanted, what I
like to do. In fact, I thought I would become a math teacher when I was like 14, 13, 15
years old. And my father is a mechanical engineer and my mom also kept saying, no, you should
be an engineer. So I became an electrical engineer and I was also very happy with the amount
of math I had there. And it was very interesting. And okay, that's how I became an electrical
engineer. And in fact, I am one of the people that I never read a single science fiction
book. I didn't like science fiction movie. Zero, zero. So I'm not at all this typical
care that loves computers and robots and aliens and start tracks and companies zero. It's
true. I only cared about this math and what it could do for you in your daily life. And
a lot of like interested on teaching math to people, very, very kind of stick. And then
when I finished this, I'm just going to tell you what made me like a change in some sense.
So when I finished my undergrad degree, I was still in Lisbon. So I was a, I am from Portugal
from Lisbon. And I was involved in a master thesis in electrical and computer engineering
in a project that was in the early 80s, very, very innovative in which we had to buy computers
and automate the production of a company of a line. So the actual, there was a company
that produced it freezers and refrigerators. It's just a manufacturing company. And all
the orders in Venturi tracking, everything was then manually. And so we were supposed
to work on how do we computerize, digitalize all that. That's very early.
That sounds like a great project. I know. I mean, I still, I mean, I, this was fantastic.
And then through this, through talking with people, so how do you represent these? How
do you write that? How do you generate the list of parts? How do you do that? How do you
do that? I became fascinated by what computers could actually do in terms of representing
knowledge, in terms of search, in terms of learning from feedback, in terms of accumulating
data in a digital way. I mean, so that was the beginning of AI for me was basically this
engineering of getting like the functioning that we used to be done manually done by machines.
So that's basically no really wanting to understand how does the brain work or how do
I mean, it was this functional engineering goal of getting these computers to do more
than just numerical computations, but to capture behavior, choices, learning, data, fascinating
kind of like two years of my life in which I became in love with AI. Wow. Yeah.
And so that was after undergrad. How did you then develop that interest?
So then I was finished my masters and for family reasons, we came to the United States
and I did another masters in computer science now at Boston University. And then I applied
for a PhD in computer science and I went to Carnegie Mellon. And at Carnegie Mellon,
if you think about Carnegie Mellon, that's like the, I mean, without offending anybody,
but in those days, that's the mecca of AI. You know, so it was herb Simon there, Ellen
Newell, Raj Reddy, Jaime Carbonell, Tom Mitchell, Jeff Finton in those days was there, Mark
Raybird. I mean, it was all these people that thought nothing else than AI, literally.
I remember when I came in 86, there was this meeting of the incoming students and the faculty
would present themselves. And there was Raj Reddy that walked into the room and said,
hey kids, imagine if all these walls, these cement walls would be displaying live the
best masterpieces of the Louvre. This was like before we even had warloads. I'm telling
you, this was all about taking big an Allen, you will say in 1987 or 86, what if all the
people in their dorms could log into their computers and be able to know whatever is
happening everywhere. And we were like, oh my god, you know, it's true. So I came here
to the United States first in Boston and then I landed at Carnegie Mellon and I thought,
where am I? I mean, this world of computers doing it all was fascinating at the same time
that we were like trying to be chess for them, the Kasparov and all these chess playing
and all sorts of, you know, anyway, Carnegie Mellon was for me and throughout the time
was there, like this place where we dream big and we get amazing things accomplished. And
just so you know, actually also in 1986 when I came to CMU, there were already autonomous
cars there. And in fact, there was this car that was coming down the campus and in the
morning, we would see by the library and then in the evening, when we would leave, it
had moved like, I don't know, maybe like a hundred feet, I don't know. And it was supposed
to be a big accomplishment that the thing had moved that far by itself. And this is
the late 80s. So that's how I grew this, I mean, grew this passion for AI was a product
of Carnegie Mellon and this dreaming big of all the things that machines could actually
do. And it was fascinating thing. Well, it sounds like an amazing environment and time
to be there. So fast forward to your faculty career. What, you know, it's also a little
bit about your research interests. So in some sense, I build an interest always on building
complete AI systems. A lot of my research has been on trying to connect the perception part
with the cognition part and with the action, perception, cognition and action. I think
that that first slide has been in my talk since for always. Because in some sense, also
falling up on things that Alan Newell was telling us, AI has been a science of components,
natural language processing, vision processing, planning, search, machine learning, speech
recognition. So it has been a science of lots of interest, lots of dimensions. And I always
thought that it would be good to put it all together as an agent that could do like the
vision and not just the vision to classify this as a cup, but then to pick it up and not
just to pick it up, but then to actually take it somewhere and not to take it somewhere,
but actually to execute not just plan, but execution and all the problems of perception,
cognition and action. And then that led me to spend all my life, all my life, building
autonomous robots. So I've built a lot of autonomous robots, not necessarily autonomous cars.
I never worked that much in outdoors robotics. I worked in indoor robotics. And my passion
was not necessarily on manipulation, but on mobility. So from robot soccer to mobile robots
in the environment, I've built tons of different robots that moved, interacted with people,
could see the image, could see actually could do perception in real time, detect an orange
ball in Robocup or other things. So I've been, I spent all my life building autonomous robots,
capable of this perception, cognition, deciding where to go, and actually going. And that's
what I've done in the late 90s. We started mid-90s, we started, I co-founded this Robocup initiative
in which robots would play soccer in different leagues and all sorts of like different conditions,
but basically the fascination was the autonomy. Even today, when I look at videos from robot soccer,
the only thing I appreciate is thinking there was all done, it was all done by an algorithm.
It was all automated. It's not exactly just the learning part, but it's actually the
ability to frame a whole problem into something that the computer can actually do from beginning
to end. I don't think we've talked about the Robocup challenge on the podcast previously. Can
you frame the problem for us? I think my exposure to it has primarily been through watching
blooper reels, which probably isn't representative. You know, the research accomplishment.
Yeah, so Robocup started around like 94, 93, 92, and then the first competition,
actual competition was in 1997 in Japan. And basically, so think about those days. In the 90s,
there was like the blooming of the internet, a lot of like, you know, competitions on speech
recognition, text understanding, and the physical world was not as much the focus in those days
of what AI was doing. And the robot soccer came about to address this problem of
of processing information, but at the physical world level. So robot soccer came about, in fact,
as a challenge also for multi robot reasoning, the robots had to work in a team, they had to be able
to have an algorithm that looks at the field, at the playing field, and decides where to pass the
ball, and eventually had a very concrete goal, which was winning. So you had to score these goals.
So that has motivated thousands and thousands of people. Robocup is even as if today
happens every year, and it brings people like, it's limited. The number of teams that can come,
but it's more than 3,000 people every year that come from all over the world. And the beautiful
thing about Robocup is these autonomous. They are all autonomous. There has nobody joysticking
these robots. There is nobody like telling anything the robots, the complete system has to be
autonomous. Anyway, at the beginning, they barely moved. Yeah, yeah, it's true. They barely moved.
We had a big problem with this connection of the perception and the reasoning. By the time we
had the robot decide to go to the ball, the ball wasn't there anymore. So you had the camera that
would process the image of the ball, that it was too slow, it was too noisy, it was everything was
very hard to make the robot really act by processing its own images. Anyway, so that's a long story,
and but only I had it put me always on to this mode of getting things that work.
Anyway, so that's went from there to having like co-bots, which are these robots that move down,
the corridors that Carnegie Mellon, they have moved thousands of kilometers in our environments,
by themselves, not thousands, thousands and many, so close to 2000 maybe now. But again,
like this goal of trying to put it all together, perception, cognition and action, data, reasoning
and action. So the processing of the data combined with what we need these data for, and then eventually
deciding and executing. So that was my life. There has been always my life. A lot of learning,
but at the reinforcement learning level, learning at the action selection level, learning at the
execution level, learning to improve perception with experience. As I keep calling these learning
from experience, not necessarily the technique itself, whether it was neural nets or decision trees
or SVNs or whatever method we use was more of these concepts of learning from experience.
And so with this, with the kind of background and passion in robotics, how did you end up at
JP Morgan Chase? I don't see many robots, you know, when I go to the bank. Wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait, but I'm just saying. So that's very interesting. So it's true. I mean,
I was quietly at Carnegie Mellon doing my research with a large group, many students, beautiful.
And I was actually at the time in 2016, since 2017, I was the head of the machine learning department.
And I got a call from JP Morgan asking, so telling us, telling me about these
efforts, they were trying to start bringing basically AI reasoning, AI research, really, not
just applied AI, but AI research to the firm. And what actually made me come to JP Morgan,
which I'm very happy to be here at JP Morgan Chase, was in fact, the thinking like this,
oh my god, this is a new area that I never thought about. And it was this fascination of thinking,
oh my god, I have a chance of doing something in another area. It's almost as if I,
robotics was beautiful, there was a lot to do, but I was at home in robotics. I mean, what,
more image less image, more object less object, more command was kind of like, but then it was
this chance. And then there was this major comment from the leadership at JP Morgan Chase that
made the difference. They said, many of the companies, Google's, Amazon's, Facebook, Twitter,
they were all born digital. They were all born, thinking about machine learning, thinking about
data, thinking about computing, thinking about algorithms, everything was born digital. But all these
other industries, like financial health, the construction, the cities, you name it existed well
before the computers existed. So that was fascinating to me to think that I could come and I'm here
to try to see how to bring more AI, my experience of AI, building these systems from beginning to
end, can make a difference in terms of like the financial domain. So that's basically what brought
me here. And you know, it was basically, it was somehow a mixture of being afraid, you know,
being like, you know, apprehensive and all, an enormous excitement to be in a different thinking
mode. So these are the two things. And the group that you run there, it's a research organization
as opposed to, you know, building churn models for credit cards or something like that.
Exactly. So we try to, we are a research group and we try to focus on, how can I say,
aspirational goals? We try to focus on things that would make an impact if they were
solved one day. So for example, I can, if this is okay, I can just share a few of the goals.
We'll just focus on a few, but we kind of structured this AI research after a one year of being
there absorbing what this financial domain was all about into seven big research goals,
which we call these aspirational goals, these big research goals. And they are like this.
Three of them have to do a lot with the actual domain itself and then use of the domain. And so
they are. So how do you use a AI to really eradicate financial crime? Not to decrease the number of
positive false positives or false negatives, the alerts, the frauds, the many laundry, but really,
do we eradicate financial crime? It's like the cure cancer kind of goal. How do you do that? So
that's why it's part of the research. It's like, how do you eradicate this financial crime and
do a use a guy for that? Then another goal that is very important is this goal of like, how do we
actually, we call it liberate data safely? How do we go about engaging with universities,
making sure that people can help us and even in the firm, we can all share data and can make secure
computations in a way that's safe private. I mean, another big goal. How do you go about doing
this in a world full of like privacy issues and encryption issues and messiness of the data and
ownership of data? How do we go about liberating these data safely? The third goal is the very
interesting goal that has a lot to do with by Robotsocker when we're another, which is looking at
this problem of the financial domain as a large, large multi-agent system. There are many
interacting pieces. So we want to predict and affect these large complex economic systems
in a way that we can actually make a difference in terms of like understanding what makes them,
their dynamics and what makes them actually, how do they function in such a complex way?
And so we do a lot of simulations, very simulation, very multi-agent simulations, very much like trying
to understand the components of this very complex global problem with all, and it's a, I mean,
again, it's a huge goal if we could one day understand how the multiple countries, the multiple
parties, the modern times, virus, no virus, how can these, all these things affect the financial
health of a society of individuals and what is this all about? So these three goals are very much
like finance-oriented goals. And then we also have three goals that are very beautiful too,
because they capture the stakeholders of these financial domain. And basically, the stakeholders
are your own employees, your clients, and the regulators. And so there are these three
components that you have to care about and try to bring a guy to improve the life of your
own employees to help them move up in the value chain. You want to perfect the experience of our
clients, and you also want to be able to agentize or to be able to automate this policy understanding,
this policy compliance, this policy compliance in some sense. So you have these three other goals
that have to do with people, with rules, with handling like how do we do the employees,
that clients, and the regulators as well. And the seventh goal is kind of an overarching goal,
which is how do we make these AI be ethical and taking into account the social good of the whole
story. So we have these establishing ethical and socially good AI as the seventh kind of overarching
goal. So that's what we do at JP Morgan Chase in terms of AI research is worked towards these
seven goals. You spent the first year kind of studying the domain and articulating
these goals. And you've been there a year and a half or so. Have you made much progress in any of
these areas? Or how are you, you know, where have you made the most progress? So very good question.
So as you can imagine, I started one person myself alone. So yeah, but you know, I did very
different from CMU exactly. However, I was like surrounded by 250,000 people at JP Morgan Chase.
So it would kind of like overwhelming also the scale. But on the other hand, the JP Morgan Chase
happened to have been very, it has been a delightful journey because of the support that the
leadership and everybody has given to these kind of like AI thinking. So it has been very nice.
So we are currently 30 people. We are 31 or 32 or 29 with the offers we have somewhere around 30.
And we kind of have worked in kind of like how we think about things is like all the projects
somehow that we work on be it like us thinking about things or like the business asking us to
think about things are all towards one of these goals. One way or another. Now everything is in
place. I'll give you an example of two because I think maybe three. But I'll tell you one thing that
is one example that is very nice. So basically we knew I'll give you this example first.
We knew that the actual success currently a lot in machine learning had been like this
neural net deep learning. And and we also I also know that deep learning is very successful on images,
on images in particular. So when I was brought to visit the traders floor. So I was in these
in London actually I was in London at JP Morgan in London and they brought me to this floor which
is like well what we see in the movies right. So everybody's surrounded by screens with all these
little kind of like graphs on the screens and people are making choices of sell no sell by no buy
windows. And literally they I had this tour of that floor and they were explaining to me all these
things and I was fascinated that I couldn't see anything else but images. Those screens that people
were looking at they were not apples and orange they were not cats and dogs but they were these
images of these little kind of graphs. And a lot of research has been done on applying math to
predict and to this time series data but I could only see images. So I went to my lab and worked
with us few of my colleagues in those those days and we said can we use these with a neural net
to try to classify the images on their screens as by no buy choices. And we built this system
and fascinating system we called it Mondrian. And we built this system we were able to use those
images and with historical data on S and P 500 decisions we were able to reproduce 95 percent
accuracy by just using images images or the by no buy choices that humans had made.
That is fascinating. Surprisingly it is counterintuitive like the images are you know kind of
dumbing down the data so that we as humans can interpret it why not just use the data itself.
Well we could use the data itself but it doesn't do as well the data needs to be normalized like
you know it's more the shape that we are capturing because the data the value 5 6 7 doesn't
it's going to confuse a little bit the learning thing while the shape was remarkable at
capturing it. And but on the other hand if you use also a good representation of the actual numbers
it also works except that because we looked at how humans made decisions based on those numbers
on the optional images images we then could do images for many other things that we have been doing
that are not objects like we have traditionally applied to at least in those days to deep deep
learning but they were images of other things of other processes of diet of other images of
other visualizations of other decision making environments. I think about the doctor also they
basically came look at your EEG data and make a decision normal normal normal and that decision
comes from looking at an image and and so it's fascinating this concept was fascinating and
it's this concept of associating this time series data to an image that then you can actually
classify for decision making and we we it's a that was a very nice project. Is your ground truth
in that example is it the decisions that the trader made or the performance no no no no no no
so the decisions that traders made we are not yet like beating the whole world by using these
images no we are you know I'm thinking of like all of the you know the pictures of some of these
financial you know stock charts and you know how many different kind of voodoo incantations
there are about this curve crossing that curve and this shape and that shape and it sounds like
you're yeah in fact capturing some of that exactly exactly and I tell you I'm telling you
you cannot imagine how much information about that correlates with the decisions is visually
visible and in fact you just said the crossing the the the shape going up going down the other
one coming down and down is very visible in an image as a feature and to the I mean to extract
that from data from the actual numbers is another representation that is more that's different
so I basically build upon the success we knew that images have the with machine learning
to transform this problem into an image classification problem an image understanding project
problem and it was very successful and it has been very successful successful and I'm telling you
we are now doing prediction basically by looking at what are the what we don't know but what are
the images what would the future which image would be the be the future that less disturb I mean
anyway we are able to predict the images of the future and so it's a you know it's it's really
beautiful so that's like to show you that you know it's a transformational way of looking at
something that is very classical eventually making decisions by no buy on time series data but I
looked at it as an image so that was another one that's very nice and then I will stop is just
that we also have been trying to understand this problem of a client experience or fraud or all
sorts of problems that we need to classify into let's think about fraud from a behavior point
of view and I give you an example that is very important for us to understand so if you and I
would have been asked to classify in New York City which of the cars are taxes and which ones are
personal cars you know 10 years ago you and I use only the color of the car right you and I
would say yellow taxi non yellow private that's it right so there was this classification based on
this feature if we are asked now which cars are service cars and which are private cars the color
doesn't help anymore only because basically there are all these ubers lifts v as everything
so now it's a question of classifying behavior rather than just these one shot features
because the behavior now is like okay this car went from here stop there then went there stop
again has been goes like that oh that looks like a service car not a personal car it's the behavior
in some sense that helps us classify service non service and we are trying to apply the same thing
to problems that have been classified a lot by just looking at this particular transaction
and deciding oh this is an amount this goes to an account that we don't know and just looking at
that by building the behavior of these you know these users to try to detect what can be eventually
behavior that is not normal behavior that is this this that we can distinguish from other type of
behavior and so it became not a classification only of the transaction or only of this snapshot
but we now in terms of research are building these representation of all these time dependencies
of all these connections in terms of knowledge of all these graph based representation to try to
capture much higher level the to try to classify these fraud no fraud to capture these complicated
classification problems the site very similar to the taxi versus no taxi or car service versus
no car service in New York the same problem and so that's another example in which we have shown
that indeed by capturing how much of these nodes these these users in our network of
interactions communicate with each other and these accounts transfer from one another to another
you are able to detect much better behavior that is not normal so this is another example
and we have done also the third example I can give you just to finish this kind of like examples
is that we have been also basically automating the generation of a lot of documents either
for regulators or for our clients or internally PowerPoint presentations representation
as a translation from data that is in some format like numbers lots and lots and lots of
information about transactions into English into another representation charts insights comments
and we have been automating that kind of like a description of the data in a representation that
is readable or that is formatted according to what's required to show when you say translation
are you meaning that literally like using a neural machine translation type of a tool and applying it
to this particular scenario very good question in fact we have not yet learned this translation we
are really just writing an algorithm to make the translation computes basically all these it's
like a you could think about is as a template feeling kind of like a algorithm the template is
complex where do we get it we have to represent it well and then we feel and then we are already
eventually at some point to do the learning of what this parameter should be and how the template
should move and the personalization and who goes where but it's another level of learning it's not
really learning that you know how do you say this word in a different language but so we built the
translation machinery and now we have to adjust all the parameters of this machinery through feedback
and through data through the use of this but we built the translation machinery and that required
so the beautiful thing about building this translation machinery is that we try to
built in in a way that it doesn't apply only to a specific task so it is general in terms of
like different types of reports so they all require eventually the data to come into this form so
you change the data and you manipulate these knowledge in a way that you can then automate so in
some sense I am as you can imagine from my first days I am always a how can I say an automation
person I'm more a young and hearing person and then machine learning for me is like a tool to try
to get these these these automation machinery adjusted and personalized and generalized and
generalized and transferred and all sorts of things but so the data plays the role for me as okay
now I adjust all of these and this goes to that side this goes to this side so yeah so that's
what these are examples of three projects the Mondrian project this kind of like behavior-based
fraud detection and these automation of reports out of several others that we have done yep
and do you see your charter at the bank in terms of a time horizon like there are lots of embedded
machine learning AI folks I imagine all over the bank and creating organizations and client
service marketing etc you know that are working on immediate projects or is one of the ways that
you see your charter as being you're in you know five to you know 20-year realization or whatever
the numbers might be it's a good question so indeed JP Morgan Chase is amazing in terms of how
much machine learning is being applied throughout throughout the firm and for classification of emails
for marketing decisions for decisions on credit no credit learn all these are supported by
data driven algorithms I mean one way or another they are present throughout it's 50,000
technologists that JP Morgan Chase has and more out of those thousands now more hundreds or AI
and machine learning people very close to the business somehow we are building this understanding
that the we work close to them we and they work close to us when the problems are reach a level
of complexity or of dreaming that cannot they don't they don't have the immediate way of addressing
them we start a much better dialogue for example this Mondrian thing or even like the generation of
these documents automated or generalized and learning from the use is like kind of something we
are involved it's not yet deployed so it's a while the applied machine learning the applied AI
they actually are very close to the business and making sure things get immediately deployed
but out in Havier our research we do these steps I mean think about the cure cancer problem
you know there might be steps in which you find better chemo there might be steps that you find
better devices and they end up you know getting to be in the hands of the protectors and
so it's the same for us same thing with us for example these things we are doing about behavior
recognition and eventually understanding the network of interactions for fraud detection
will eventually be is closer to deployment than other things we are working on so we are in
that spectrum and you know and we we interact a lot with the business we like a lot with our
colleagues in applied machine learning and but we still kind of live in this world of being free
to how do you say to transform to reinvent to to just think a little bit more without the boundaries
of having something that is needed today now five 20 years I don't know but I do expect to
that we expect so just so we know I expect that we produce novelty and innovation every year
every year we do something when do we reach the goals who knows I mean in Robocup we used to say
by 2050 we will beat the World Cup human players robots will beat the World Cup human players and
we made that 2050 we are getting too close to that but anyway but now exactly when we'll eradicate
financial crime but we also but these goals we built them to be like for 2030 it's like any
or goal in some sense but is your your novelty and innovation metric is what is it you know direct
value to the business many you've come up with something and they've implemented it and it's
solving a problem or is it you know is there a publishing model for example were you expect to be
you know publishing an academic literature and that's a metric for a novelty and innovation
definitely the latter too we have a lot of connections with universities we publish
all our results so we want to be we are involved in all the research activities and
I could like tell you Sam a whole other conversation about our connections with universities
the fellowships we created the research awards we created I'm sorry I did not focus on that as
much but yes we are literally a research group and as such we are a research group however I do
believe that we will that we make a difference also at another level of value to the company
oh we bring talent you know it's a very good like we a very good benefit for our firm a lot of
talent in this computer science core and AI core and machine learning AI and computer science
computer engineering awesome are there any particular places that we can look for publications
or some of the work that you're doing yeah yeah there is a we have an external website with all
our publications and I can text to you but I believe it's just JP Morgan slash AI or JP Morgan
Chase I forget now I have it the bookmarked but I will chase it down and include it in the
general page perfect and it has all this description of the goals the publications we have done
these different pillars everything okay how how do you see the the role in the group evolving
you know again you're kind of recently having established these principles and kind of getting
underway you've grown pretty significantly you know what do you expect to see over the next few
years so we are a group of basically me heading and then I have three research directors Tucker
Balch who came from Georgia Tech Prashantredi who came from Google and then Samina Shah came from
S&P 500 and basically the three of them and me are the directors of these group we have only
masters and PhDs in my group masters level and PhDs and we expect to grow by next year to be a
group of probably 50 by the end of this year and then probably grow up to be 100 within the next two
three years and stay at 100 150 within JP Morgan doing research AI research in the financial domain
so anyone who has an interest on doing AI research in not the not only I mean or wants to consider
not only the technical the tech the the giant tech the Google's the Facebook and
and so forth this is a great place to be to do AI research in this particular kind of like
financial domain but in great so we publish in great through AI research and AI machine learning
so that's what I'm trying to build is a little AI research group up to 200 people I would say
within the next five years well Manuel thanks so much for taking the time to chat with us
share a bit about what you're up to it was great great meeting you and great learning about what
you're doing thank you very much Sam and thanks a lot for hosting me absolutely please be safe
all right everyone that's our show for today to learn more about today's guest or the topics
mentioned in this interview visit twimmel ai.com of course if you like what you hear on the podcast
please subscribe rate and review the show on your favorite pod catcher thanks so much for listening
and catch you next time
