All right, everyone. I am here with Elaine and Soisy. Elaine is an assistant professor of Global Health at Boston University.
Elaine, welcome to the Twimal AI podcast.
Thank you for having me, Sam.
Absolutely. Really looking forward to digging into the conversation. You are working on a lot of interesting topics centered around
an area that we're all paying a lot of attention to. Epidemiology. Who knew that you would be, you know, in such a, you know, and a role that everyone, you know, is curious about when you started this.
How did you get started?
So I'm originally from Cameroon, Mr. US 16 and I studied math as an undergrad, but I really wanted to do applied math. I wasn't really good at theoretical math.
And so I applied to programs was thinking about doing biostats because I was interested in health applications of math.
And then my mentor, I did an internship at NIH and then my mentor said, so that's a national institute of health in D.C.
And my mentor says, to be statistics instead of five stats. And he said, you would lend them efforts and you can apply them to whatever you want to reply to you instead of just focusing on the specific area of statistics.
So I applied really late into a statistics program of Virginia Tech, got a subject and I did my math statistics, but I still wanted to do more flight stuff.
I was already working in a lab that was doing computational epidemiology, so they were developing this large kill malls to predict how diseases spread.
So they would take a city like Seattle, for example, and replicate the population of Seattle down to the census level. So if you take a census of the city of Seattle and you take a census of the model, it would be identical.
And then they would simulate disease spread over those populations and see how spread and then look at different interventions. So basically what we're doing right now in real life. So they would say, over close calls, what would happen if we shut down businesses, what would happen if we had a vaccine that was like 80% effective, what would happen to the population.
So I got really fascinated by that and decided I wanted to do my PhD in the area. So I ended up getting a PhD in composition epidemiology.
And what was your specific PhD topic?
A podcast in influenza spread using network models using network models. Yeah. And have you have you applied the similar types of techniques to COVID data? I have, would they apply, would they apply equally or is there something specific to anyone?
I haven't, but I have colleagues who are doing that. We're using this all as well as that we developed back in the day to do those predictions.
Okay.
Cool. So you, you have fairly broad research interests and you presented on quite a few of those at the recent machine learning for global health workshop at ICML,
which is, or your presentation focus on kind of the intersection of machine learning and epidemiology.
Yeah, before we dig into your specific research interests, I'm curious what your can you give us some background on that workshop and the theme that brought folks together.
Yeah, so the workshop was focused on global health and it brought together a very diverse group of people to talk about different problems in global health and how they were trying to solve those problems.
So the main focus was, how are people using machine learning in different spaces and what are the specific problems that they are trying to address?
And in terms of your specific research, you know, let's talk through some of the things that you're focused on.
But actually, before we get to, before we get to specific projects, is there, how do you describe your research interests broadly?
I am very interested in data and technology. So I, if I see a data set, I want to know how can we use this data to improve health.
So I think about things that people have not done before and what are novel ways to look at things.
So for example, in 2014, I started thinking about restaurant reviews. So if people were going to restaurants and eating and writing reviews about those restaurants, that could be a useful form of information.
So if we wanted to track the spread of foodborne diseases in the community, we could use that data. And you had the families of health that were actually thinking about the same problem at the same time. And so we developed a whole small as where we were, my information from places like Yelp.
So if someone went to Yelp, ate at a restaurant and wrote about the experience on Yelp, we captured that data and looked at what people were talking about and how that could inform disease surveillance.
So that's what I really interested in. So if there's a digital data source out there, I want to know how can we use it to improve health.
Yeah, remember you speaking about this, the restaurant review at Black and AI, was that this year or the most recent year or the year before?
That was last year, yeah.
Okay.
And maybe give us a little bit more on that use case and what some of the things that came out of it were.
Yeah, so we actually worked with local departments of health to develop a platform where they could look at reviews as they come in and look at posting some Twitter.
So if people were posting about having foodborne illness in the particular city, they could see what people were saying. And then there are two things they could do.
A lot of people were talking about the same restaurant, they could actually go out and do target a restaurant inspection. So instead of just having things scheduled in the future, they can say, it looks like something is wrong. Right now, let's go check it.
Where the idea is that if there's something wrong with the restaurant, they can stop more people from getting infected.
And then the second thing was if people were talking about having similar symptoms about the same time, then they could actually go on into outbreak investigations.
So they could be an outbreak happening in the community, if you have 10 people talking about having similar symptoms within the same day or two days or even within the same week.
So they could actually go out and investigate if outbreaks have happened and the health departments that have been able to find outbreaks that were not reported to them by looking at what people were posting on this website.
If I remember correctly, one of the things that caught my eye or ear at the time was that you were doing some work with, or I think you mentioned St. Louis in which, you know, where I'm based, you were working with the local health department here.
Correct. Yes. So we walked through them to develop back from to some money to reports of food by on SS. Okay. Very cool. Yeah, I think one of the things that, you know, outside of, you know, the occasional movie like outbreak and the like, you know, that has become a lot more clear about epidemiology to many of us is how much work goes into actually surveilling and tracking and all of these.
You know, all these things that these agencies are doing behind the scenes to kind of monitor, you know, diseases. I don't think I had a full appreciation for that before COVID.
Yes. And when public health is working, we don't really think about it.
It's when we have major outbreaks and we see things happening in our communities, I always stop thinking about it. So let's talk a little bit about some of the use cases that you explored in your presentation.
One of the ones that I know you're really excited about is some work you did around satellite imagery. What was the problem there that you were looking to solve?
So the idea for our project was to think about ways and we should get data. If we had an outbreak, let's say we have like the current pandemic and it started in a location where we didn't have access to data.
It's always that we can look at what is happening in the community to get signals that there's actually something happening or you can even think about it retrospectively.
So let's say there's been an outbreak that started somewhere and we don't know when it started. We don't know when people started getting infected.
Can we go back and look at satellite images of hospital parking lots to see if there's a significant significant change at a particular point I could lead us to investigate a bit more whether that was when the outbreak started.
So for this particular study, we looked at three different countries. I think it was Mexico, Chile and Argentina and we looked at hospitals in those in those countries and looked at hospital parking lots and tracked how people were using parking lots over time to see how that compared with reports of influenza like illnesses in those communities.
And we're able to show that you could actually capture trends in influenza like illnesses during the flu season by just looking at how people were using hospital parking lots.
Oh wow. And so the data sources were these open source data sets that were readily accessible online or did you acquire them directly from the satellite companies? Where did the data sets come from?
So we had to buy the data. We worked with a company to buy the data from the digital group.
So we had to target specific hospitals with the company help to do to identify and collect or retrospectively find that data for those hospitals.
Okay. Was the data expensive or is it pretty easy for you to get that data? It was expensive. It was expensive. But we've also done studies where we've used Google data, satellite image data to look at things like inequalities in USC.
So one idea was that if we can capture the building environment in particular neighborhood, we could see whether that can link to specific health outcomes. So if you go to some states and you move between one neighborhood to the next, the life expectancy can be as much the difference can be as much as 16 to 20 years.
And the reason for that is things like low income versus high income, which leads to access to different resources, leads to issues around safety.
And so looking at the neighborhood, we constructed an indicator for different neighborhoods across six different cities.
And so the neighborhood in that case is a census tract and an average, it has about 3000 people. And we constructed an indicator and then show that by just looking at the neighborhood, you could tell which neighborhoods are going to have higher obesity prevalence and which ones are going to have more obesity prevalence.
Going back to the satellite imagery and the parking lot. So you've got this input data coming from digital globe that's unlabeled. Did you compare that to reported, just reported incidents of, was it flu?
Yeah, it wasn't just the flu, we also had the common cold and other viruses that have similar symptoms when people get infected.
And so you essentially produce a labeled set based on this publicly reported information.
Correct. So for each site image of a hospital, we would have the company would basically count number of cars that were in that image.
So they would draw a line across the neighborhood of that hospital and then count how many cars were in the parking lot.
And how many parking lot spaces were available? So if you had an overfield, then that would signify that a lot of people were showing up. And we could look at this data over time to see how it had changed and how that could possibly relate to disease outbreaks.
And was the, when you think of that use case was the primary novelty or contribution, just the application of the satellite imagery to this aspect of public health, or did you have to do some interesting tricks with either the satellite data or with the, you know, the labels or, you know,
the network that you were using?
I think it was mostly the novel application to this particular problem.
We know that we can use things like social media data and other data sources, but those are not always available in some countries.
And so we were trying to think about what is something that is available for every country, at least hopefully available if you can afford it. And could that be useful for business surveillance?
Okay.
Yeah.
Awesome. Awesome. And so the, did you find any, were there interesting, you know, what surprised you in doing that?
All kind of straightforward, what you expected it to work and it worked and, you know, great, or did you run into a lot of surprising results?
I really wasn't expecting me to work.
Because I mean, there's so much that happens on the hospital. So people could be sharing out of the hospital for so many different reasons.
And we tried to control for those reasons and look at what are some other reasons why people would be at the hospital, but none of them could actually predict as well as when we looked at disease cases for that particular period.
So it was, it was definitely surprising to me.
Yeah.
So that was one of the examples that you talked about at this presentation. You also spent some time talking about health behaviors in Africa in particular.
Tell us about your research there.
So the studies that we're doing in Africa are around trying to think about how people are changing your behaviors as cities grow, as people have access to things that maybe we're not there before.
A good example is fast food restaurants. So in the last two years, I traveled across several African countries for conferences and meetings and they're just places that did not have fast food restaurants, now have them.
So you go, you see KFC and you see all these different fast food restaurants that are based in the US.
And that is changing the way people eat is changing the way people think about food, but it's also changing, it's all affecting people's health as well.
So places where we didn't have used to have high prevalence of chronic diseases and now starting to have that and the expectation is that over time is just going to continue increasing.
And I think in how can we start setting up a framework where we can use some of the information that people have put in the internet to monitor changes and behaviors and hopefully predict how those diseases were the prevalence of disease and we change over time.
And so what are some of the specific types of information that you're looking at there.
So we'll be looking at such data specifically. So are people searching for things like how do I lose weight or a people searching for specific diets that people looking for James, the people looking for other things that can indicate that either their diets have changed or that they were trying to get healthy and then try to see how that leads to or correlates with obesity prevalence across different regions.
And what kind of results did you find there?
It's very, very interesting.
So the things that are so obvious, the things that we're actually finding so things like how to lose weight tend to be very significant when you look at its correlation with obesity prevalence or people searching for James or threat meals, for example, those all correlate with obesity prevalence.
It's something that I hope to find, but it's also how do we use this information now that we know that people are searching for these things across the continent, how can we use it to build interventions to prevent the increase of this chronic disease.
It's the one that surprises me a little bit. I would think that some cities are just more health conscious or fit or something like that. And the people in those cities look for James more than others independent of whether they're, you know, particularly, I guess health conscious that, you know, there's going to be a correlation of health consciousness, but not necessarily to obesity.
You know, they, you know, they, they may be less obese because they search for this more because just based on the culture of that city, did you run into issues like that?
No, so we've done this data to see a level.
Almost the data we have right now is at the country level. But that could be one factor. But as cities grow as well and become more health conscious, you also see an increase in movies as well, because they're going to be people working out and they're going to be people who have access to the resources to actually work out or to eat healthy.
Got it. Got it. And so what types of specific approaches did you apply to the data to get to the results that you got?
So the data is really straightforward to download pages. You go to Google Trends and you can get sessions for different terms. And then we do modeling. So we use things like random far as regression to see if we can actually, because we have 111 terms that we used and then try to figure out which ones are most predictive.
And which ones would be useful in actually in using the model to look at obesity prevalence?
And the looking for gyms and those kinds of terms were the ones that you found to be most predictive.
Yeah, those are the ones I would find to be most predictive.
Were there ones that surprised you that you thought, you know, you thought would be more predictive than they actually were?
Not really, not really. It was actually, it was really too typical, I guess, in a sense.
Because we've done similar studies for the US when we looked at obesity and other things. And these are the things that we ended up seeing.
So it's kind of being reflected in African countries. But I'm sure if we start looking at regions or cities, we'll see variability in what people were looking for.
Got it. So going back to kind of what was most interesting here. In this case, it was the application of this information where you applied it as opposed to the specific techniques that you use or data, because you've done or have seen similar things done here.
Yeah, yeah, precisely. It's ways being applied.
Okay, what what's your take on the general state of applying these kinds of approaches to understanding health in Africa in general?
I think I'm excited. I'm excited that, you know, there is data because for years, I was looking for this kind of data to see if it could be useful.
Yeah, there is data. But I think there's still, there's still a need to develop more contextualized approaches, especially when we start thinking about interventions.
Because the way people approach things in most African countries is not going to be the same as in the US or in the Western world.
And so there's still that need of, okay, now we know people are searching for this. But if we had to develop interventions, how would we develop interventions and how would we make sure that they're effective?
So meaning the approaches that we might use from an analytical perspective to identify, you know, the key terms are the same, but then when we want to actually do something about it, the approaches, you know, are likely to be very different.
Yes, actually, in both cases, it could be different. So the approaches to identifying key terms might also be different. And we've seen that in the defense study. I think it just depends on the topic.
So it's got lucky on the health behaviors one.
Yeah, it's a healthy.
But if we looked at infectious diseases and we found that we actually had to think very differently in terms of what people would be looking for.
In the fact that so we looked at influenza like illnesses, so we wanted to see if someone had the flu, would they actually go and search for the kinds of symptoms that people in the US such for.
And that was not the case. So people would not search for a tiny flu or search for.
I don't know what else people tend to search for in the US. So they might not search for the specific symptoms that people look for in the US, but they would search for home remedies instead.
So they might look up whether ginger actually works or if a specific type of tea works. And so we have people we were from Cameroon tell us like on all sort of Nigeria. So tell us like, what was your mother search for? She was on Google looking up things and she had the cold.
Okay. What is some of those terms and found this to be very useful? It does chicken soup work for the cold or something close to treatment for achy muscles or something.
Precisely. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Interesting.
So we've talked a little bit around COVID and everything that's happening here and around the world with regard to COVID. Have you done well, what specifically have you done around COVID?
And even taking a step back from that, what is it like being an epidemiologist now, you know, with epidemiologists at center stage during a global pandemic?
It doesn't work. You're at center stage like it does. It does. I mean, interviews. I've done a lot more interviews here than I probably did in the last three years.
And it's sometimes exciting. Sometimes it's not because you end up answering the same questions over and over again. And and people have had very different experiences.
So people who have published papers and they got a lot of negative feedback from from the public attacks. I even have friends who have been attacked by opposition parties and the country is really working. It's, it's, yeah, it's not always fun.
What are the questions that you don't get asked over and over again in these interviews around COVID epidemiology that you think you should be asked more of because they're, you know, interesting and people aren't thinking about them.
I think there's been a lot more conversation around race and ethnicity in the last two months than there was at the beginning. And I'm glad that it's happening because I think it's very, very important that we should have those conversations and how different groups of people are being affected by this and what we can do to make sure that those populations have the resources they need.
And that they receive the treatments that they need.
And is that an area that you've researched?
That is an area that I have collaborated with researchers to look at.
So we've, we did one study where we looked at low income versus high income individuals and how there was social distancing during lockdowns across the US.
And what we found was that people from lower income neighborhoods where the social distancing was less compared to higher income groups.
And that could be because a lot of people have essential jobs.
And so they're constantly out and being in contact with people and being exposed to the virus of your more likely to get infected and bring that back to their households and get all this infected as well.
So I think you hear a lot about at least if you're, you know, paying attention to the disparity in the way COVID has impacted different communities that there are in a lot of communities, black communities, Latino communities, this kind of essential worker status people need to go work, you know, and public transportation systems and grocery stores and things like this.
So that is going to drive a lot of the exposure.
Did you were there any changes in the or any differences in the way, you know,
a size from kind of work related responsibilities, people responded to the disease from a social distance perspective.
So the data that we looked at was mobility data. So we can always see where people were at different times and when lockdowns were happening and when we're not happening.
So we didn't really have information on individual groups and what other experiences they were going through at the time.
But there are two major issues, I think, one being that a lot of those groups are doing essential works and so they're being exposed.
But then they are also the ones that have a lot of the pre-existing conditions that tend to lead to severe COVID disease.
And we know that one of the reasons why things exist the way they do is because of structural inequalities to what do people have access to what resources they have and how can they be healthy when they don't have the same access to the kinds of resources that higher income groups have.
So what's an example of that?
Grusted straws, for example, if you go to different neighborhoods, if you go to poor neighborhoods, you look at the grocery store options, you don't always have access to healthy foods.
So the foods that are on the shelves are always the kinds of foods that you will see in higher income neighborhoods, cost is also an issue.
So you can have access to a place, but you can't afford the food because you don't have the money to pay for it.
And so that, as an example, is an effect that impacts long-term health and chronic disease.
It seems like a lot of studies on social distancing or a lot of work has been done around these mobility data sets from, you know, cell phone data and others.
You also looked at the role of, you know, when you talk about kind of the role of income in the disease, is it primarily around attaching this mobility data to, you know, where folks lived or the other ways that you've looked at that question.
Yeah, it's mostly around where folks lived versus where the work. So if you look at someone's timeline, are they spending more time at where you would consider, let's say, a grocery store or at this many more time at the home.
Okay.
Yeah.
Got it. Got it.
And what are some of the other examples that you gave at your talk or, you know, around this intersection of machine learning and epidemiology.
Yeah.
So one of the other ones that I mentioned before was still back to solid images, but looking more at the environment and how that leads to health.
So that was one of the example that I gave where we were looking at disparities across neighborhoods in six different cities and thinking about.
If you looked at a neighborhood, can you use that as an indicator to predict the health outcomes of individuals in that neighborhood.
And that gets you thinking about access and how can we change the way neighborhoods are designed so that people have access to the resources that they need to be healthy.
So if you're starting from a satellite image and you're using that to try to predict what specifically access to obesity prevalence.
Yeah.
Okay.
I can imagine like so many different ways that you might go about, you know, trying to try to do that. What, what did you find worked.
Oh my, you may be in terms of methods.
In terms of, in terms of met, well, I guess both, you know, what, what methods drove you to what conclusions, you know, in terms of things that were predictive of obesity.
We use transphile learning and convolutional networks to process the images. And one of the reasons why we did the study is that there are actually quite a few studies showing that what you have access to.
So the build environment influences health and the influence is obesity prevalence in the US.
But studies tend to measure different things. So some would measure the amount of green spaces, some look at sidewalks, some look at other aspects of the neighborhood.
And we wanted to see if there was a way that we could process images and build something that was comprehensive. So instead of trying to count one thing, can we count everything that is present.
And then use that as a way to look at health and neighborhoods.
Yeah, that's what I was getting out with the question. You can, you know, if you think about this in terms of counting, you know, maybe, you know, the number of hospitals or grocery stores or green spaces or parks or, you know, running tracks or things like that.
And your approach was to, well, you know, that's kind of your traditional feature engineering. Let's just throw all these at a network and give it some labels and see if it can predict anything.
Did it work? It worked. It worked. The review process was very funny.
It was interesting.
Also, this is too predictive.
Meaning they didn't think that it was actually working.
They had never seen anything like it before. And so we're arguing that maybe the reason why you have this is in public health journals as opposed to
machine learning journals.
Precisely.
And when I did run the models, I thought it was too predictive to you.
And we had to rerun it multiple times and then we tried several different approaches because I wanted to be as careful as I could be.
And that was one of the comments that the review is right back. That's all we had to explain that if you look at the literature, people have always looked at the single thing and we're trying to look at everything together at the same time.
So if we're getting predictions that have not been observed in the past, we don't really have anything to compare to.
So we can say this person did something similar. So let's look at the differences.
And so did you try applying any explainability techniques or model introspection techniques to try to get a sense for what the model was keying in on to make its prediction?
We sort of working on that.
Never finished, but.
But what we found was green spaces seem to be a very strong predictor.
Interesting, interesting.
And then another topic that you talked a little bit about was products surveillance. What is what does that mean?
So the specific example I gave was on on safe food products.
When people consume on safe food products, they can get sick. They can even die from it.
And so we've been thinking about ways in which we could monitor on safe food products to identify them as soon as possible.
So then someone like the FDA can do a food recall.
They would pull out everything from the market for that particular batch.
And then hopefully people do not get the continues to consume it and get sick.
Particularly, let's tell you looked at Amazon reviews. I was on product reviews where we collected data over while someone else collected data.
And they made it publicly available over several years.
And then we looked at our data to see whether we could build.
What do we use for the reuse bird?
So if we could train bird to identify unsafe food products based on the reviews that people were writing.
What were some of the indicators that or examples of the indicators that a product was unsafe?
Was it as simple as I ate this whatever?
And I was vomiting in two days or something?
Yeah, yeah.
So people use very specific descriptions.
Like you had an auto.
The taste had changed or and then we'll talk about symptoms like vomiting.
But then you also had products that were mislabeled.
So it wasn't that they were bad.
Is that they either contain something that was not included in the label.
So people will have allergies.
We're complaining about that.
So I told them I would say I have a milk allergy and this has milk, but it didn't say that it has milk.
So the data set that you use was this one of these kind of large Amazon product review data sets.
It wasn't specific to your case at all.
Yeah, it was it was one of those data sets.
And then we had to to process the data.
So we started the project in the summer of 2017.
And it was supposed to be a summer project.
So one of these data science was social good programs in Western Washington.
And at the end of the summer we were still processing the data.
Because we're trying to figure out that there was huge.
But then also trying to figure out whether it could be useful at all was a challenge.
Yeah, and the major challenge for the project was actually processing the data because we had to we had so we have Amazon data.
We have the product information.
And then we had information from the FDA about products that they had recalled.
So we had to take the Amazon data and match it to the FDA data.
And that's where the issue started.
And FDA data didn't have a ASIN.
Nope.
It didn't.
It would have been a lot easier.
It would have been so much easier and it would have been more easier if they actually had the complete product called ID, which it didn't.
So you have a fraud that we recalled and some of the numbers have been stripped.
And you have an incomplete code and we would not know whether it actually matched the Amazon data.
The product that we're looking at or it was this different product.
So we spend so much time trying to match those numbers to each other.
I don't imagine I don't know whether this is something that impacted your results, but I would think on top of that.
Particularly, I think it's come to light a lot now in the context of COVID, but there's a ton of manipulation of listings on the part of.
Sellers, you know, particularly these folks that will like import products from China a lot of times there.
You know, they'll like create these, you know, fake listings for things that Amazon is not paying attention to get a lot of generic reviews and then swap it out for respirators or, you know, masks or things like that that.
You know, Amazon is paying more attention to, you know, so that they have a review base.
There's a ton of games that folks play with these that I've got to add in that if you're trying to do something for real with this kind of data will make for a lot of messy work.
Yeah, yeah, definitely, definitely.
The data that we had was being older, so I don't know how much people would pay attention to Amazon at the time.
But these have definitely changed and I that would have affected our results.
Okay.
Any other key themes from your talk that we haven't touched on?
Is there anything else I'm trying to remember?
I talked a bit about social media data, but that's also linked to health behaviors because we were been looking at how people talk about things like exercise and diet and social media specifically tweeter and how that could inform us about prevalence of physical activity in the US.
Yeah.
What's your sense for the kind of the state of the application of machine learning in the field?
Just looking at or thinking about the various places that you've applied it.
It seems like there's a ton of opportunity to take off the shelf, you know, models and things that that you know, not you're not kind of making exotic new network architectures are just kind of applying stuff to data sets and interesting ways sometimes, you know, for interesting places and you're able to make a contribution.
That need that you think that that will continue for a while.
What's the dynamic in that field for folks interested in machine learning and, you know, in health?
I think in my experience, the simple methods tend to work pretty well and I don't need to go to the complicated stuff or try to create anything.
And it's for me, I always aim to start with the simple stuff.
Have a data said, what is the simplest method I can use for this?
And then if that doesn't work, then I start thinking of more complicated, complicated approaches.
And I think there are so many opportunities for doing that.
There's so many different data sources that we can use to answer different questions and then move from not just answering questions with thinking about how do we create.
Real time applications that can impact people's lives.
The football one is a very good example because we're able to work with the Department of Health and they can use that information for decision making.
But you can think about all the ways in which we can get data process data using the simple approaches and then have someone use that for making decisions that can improve people's health.
What are some examples of, do you have ideas that come to mind that are things that are still needed in that community?
I guess where I'm coming from is we talk about a lot of exotic stuff on the podcast all the time.
We talk about these gigantic models and kind of cutting edge approaches there and we talk about even in the context of public health, you know, very, you know, tech forward approaches to things like contact tracing.
It's just striking me that you're having, you know, a huge impact with stuff that we consider pedestrian in some circles, right? It's like CNN on some satellite images better than a cargo competition.
I mean, I could actually impact people's lives with this.
Yeah, I think it always starts at the community level. So thinking about what is happening in local communities and how impact can be had in that.
So one organization that I'm involved with is data science Africa and we have conferences across the continents, but usually in West Africa or East Africa.
We actually have one ongoing right now, but it's all federal because you need.
But people will come to those spaces are working in your local communities and they're using some of these very simple approaches to solve problems around agriculture, around health, developed tools around health education, for example.
How can we make sure that young people get access to information that they need? If if it's a topic that's either sensitive in the culture and something that they don't usually talk about, but they need that information, how can we get that information to them on the mobile phones, which they have.
So very simple approaches and also making a point of engaging with the community that is just thinking what is the problem that might this community might be dealing with and then trying to solve it actually go into the community and ask people what is the problem you're dealing with.
So if you have a local form, what is the problem you have in your form and how can I help you solve that problem.
Awesome. Cool. Well, Elaine, thanks so much for taking the time to chat. It was great learning about your research.
Thank you. Thank you so much so.
