Alright everyone, I'm here with Eric Rice. Eric is an associate professor at the University
of Southern California and co-director of the USC Center for Artificial Intelligence
in Society. Eric, welcome to the Twimal AI podcast.
Well, thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here. Hey, I'm really looking forward
to digging into our conversation. Before we do, I'd love to have you share a little bit
about your background. You are a social scientist, but you work extensively with the AI community.
Tell us a little bit about how that came to be. Oh, God. Yeah, sure. As if that's a quick
story, but I'll try to make it quick one. So yes, I am a social scientist. I'm a sociologist
by training, and I'm a professor in the Susanne DeVorque Peck School of Social Work at USC.
So I've been an applied social scientist working in social work for about 12 years. And
I started working with computer scientists back in 2014. And my initial collaboration
was with Mill and Tombay, who I know you've had on this podcast in the past. And really,
he, he and I met at a kind of a meet and greet for faculty across schools. And I think
the, and when he and I started talking, we realized that surprisingly, we shared an interest
in social network influence problems, which I didn't realize the computer scientists were
interested in it at all. But then it turns out that they are, especially in the context
of, you know, Twitter networks and, and even in sort of modeling other sorts of networks
because the interesting computational problems that go along with it. And I was a social network
researcher since the 90s, really, when I was originally trained in sociology. And so
I've been work, I had been working on some projects around social influence in youth
experiencing homelessness and HIV prevention. And so when he and I started talking, we got
all excited about this very odd, you know, a connection that we, that we didn't expect
to have. And then when we, when we decided to start meeting together, things quickly seemed
very promising. And so we started playing around and it became a paper. And then a paper
became a grant. And then a grant became a center. And, you know, the next thing I know,
I wake up and, you know, people expect me to say intelligent things about AI. And I
am not a computer scientist, right? So I mean, I, I hang out. I've, I've got a lot of friends
that are computer scientists, but I am not one. I mean, the last time I took a computer science
class, it was 1994. And I was learning Pascal, right? So just to give you a sense of like what
a dinosaur, you know, my computer science is person. That's awesome. Pascal's a great
language. Sure. I don't think I could code a word in it anymore. But, you know, yeah,
it was, it was cool when I was in college. Yeah, but it's, but, but, but, but, you know,
I was a math nerd. You know, I, I mean, when I first started college, I thought I was going
to be, I started off as a math major. And I took, sort of, as much math as the, um, folks
that do economics and physics do just because a, I liked it. And it was like, and it was,
math was an easy A for me. So it's like several, a couple years of math as electives was what
I did, even though I was a sociology major, just because it was, I liked it. But I was really
much more drawn, I think intellectually to social science and issues of inequality, uh, and
poverty. I mean, I was living in, I was at the University of Chicago. I was an undergraduate
in the south side of Chicago in the early 90s. And it was a really, you know, race relations
were really tense. Poverty was really extreme. And it was, it was, and University of Chicago
has a great kind of history of doing sociology. And so it was really hard not to get kind
of drawn into this. And then as time went on, I realized that what I was really interested
in was these very applied version of social sciences, which is what you get in social work
where people are really interested in intervention work. And then all of that is sort of to say
that, like, I become the domain expert, right? I mean, so I, I hang out with folks and talk
to them about social problems. And then we try to come up with, uh, algorithmic solutions
to, to, to make a difference is kind of like a high level, uh, of where, of where I'm at.
Awesome. Awesome. And you recently participated in a workshop at ICLR, uh, where I clear,
uh, on responsible AI. Uh, tell me a little bit about, uh, that workshop, the focus there
and, sure, yeah. I've been very fortunate that, um, the computer science community has
been very gracious and welcoming of me. I mean, I, I'm, I'm surprised pleasantly when
I hear people talk about the value of working with social scientists and the value of social
science, like social work. And I sort of, I was in, like, wow, this is weird that people,
you know, people in this, in this room would say such a thing. But it's, it's, um, but
it's really gratifying. And so I was, uh, this responsible AI workshop was really cool.
There were, um, I don't know, about a dozen, um, people that they asked to give half an hour
talks. And then they had some panel discussions where we all got to, in groups of about six,
yeah, kind of riff on ideas with one another. And, you know, as usual for me in a computer
science convening, I'm, you know, the one social scientist in the room. But, um, so I say
probably, I don't know, maybe high level interesting things, but maybe in the details, like,
dumb things, but I try my best, you know, and, um, and, and one of the things that I was talking
about for myself when they asked me to give a talk was really, you know, what have I learned
as a social scientist about doing interdisciplinary work? Because that's really been the
focus since the beginning with Milland, um, Tom Bay, uh, back in 2014. And now in the center
that I run at USC and the collaborations that I have with people like Phoebe Vianos and
B. Stratelkina, um, you know, we still are doing all these interdisciplinary work. And one of
the things I was talking about was some lessons learned for me. And, and I think I'll share this
with, with, with your, with your audience, because I think that, you know, since most folks are,
as you said, practitioners in the AI realm, um, that, you know, what I found in working collaboratively
is that the, the, there's a few lessons that are valuable. I mean, the first is that you actually
have to, what I say, well, say, like, collaborate for real. And that means don't just bring in domain
experts and as like a token or if you're in social science, don't just bring in a machine learning
person as a token person and say, hey, run these models. It's like, if you, but if you get people
together to genuinely work on problems from the get go, the solutions and the, the con, the
contours of the problem are much more detailed and the solutions are much more thoughtful and
innovative and it's, it's much better work. Um, the other thing is you have to learn how to
communicate, which is actually really difficult because you, um, in the social sciences and in
computer science, there's elaborate professional languages that are very arcane and specific to those
disciplines and they're very jargon-filled and sometimes the same words mean different things
and different words mean the same things like, for example, you know, social scientists we talk
about variables in the way that a computer scientist would talk about features of a data set.
But when you talk about a variable, you're usually talking about something that's in the level of
sort of like a, an algorithmic level model, whereas that's what we talk about when we're talking
about features of a data set. And likewise, like a model, I mean, good lord. Like models mean like
six different things because there's like theoretical models, but then theory means something
different in social science than it means in computer science and so you can talk past each
other really quickly, even though you think you're speaking the same language and it takes time
to, to learn to communicate effectively. And then the example of this just prior to starting the
interview, we were out, I was describing the, our audience as practitioners and to you that
was social scientists. Do you mean that meant social workers? That meant practicing social workers,
like not social scientists who would be running right from us, but people that actually work with,
you know, a homeless individual and try to get them a house, you know, that's a practitioner,
right? And so it's, it's, it's funny because yeah, we're using the same word to mean two
totally different things. I mean, great example of that. Yeah, no, exactly. And it's, it happens
all the time, all the time. And it's not insurmountable, it just takes time. And then, and then the
last thing is really that you have to iterate, which is part, which is, you know, part of the processes
that, you know, as you work collaboratively in these interdisciplinary spaces, the initial solutions
may not actually encompass all of the depth of the problem and that you don't really even realize
that you've left things out until you get to the next step down the road. And then you realize
that while you've solved one aspect of the problem, new aspects of the problem are emerging and
becoming visible to you simply by having solved that first part of the problem. But yeah, so anyway,
we're, you know, it's, it's, it's these, these, these lessons learned about interdisciplinary work
are things that, you know, I kind of came across over having done several projects over the years
with several different computer scientists. And, and it's really, it's, it's really fun work.
I mean, that's the other thing that, that I, I, I hope that I shared with the, the ICLR
responsible AI is not only that, you know, we can be responsible and part of being responsible is
doing this work in this collaborative interdisciplinary way, but also that it's a, it's a, it can be a very
joyful process, you know, it's, it's, it's fun to, I mean, not that working on problems like HIV
and homelessness, like those aren't fun things to talk about, but working with other people that
are dedicated to making the world a better place and who want to solve problems and be thoughtful
about it can be a very joyful and, you know, processed, you know, even though the issues that you're
working on can sometimes be really heavy. I'd love to maybe carry those three lessons through
as a frame for talking about some of the projects that you've worked on and some of the collaborations.
One that you've already mentioned is this work with homelessness or this collaboration with
Melentombe. You know, we talked quite extensively with him about it, but, you know, maybe before we
jump into, you know, something new, maybe the kind of a fresh perspective from your side of the
collaboration. Sure, sure. So when we start, like I was saying a couple minutes ago,
part of this started because we realized that we had this surprising shared intellectual interest
in how networks can be essentially mobilized to, with influence, maximization as sort of the
basis for this. And so can you pick a set of, you know, nodes within this network that could be
trained, this is in the context of the way that I think about, that could be trained to disseminate
messages that would improve health and well-being in a community. In this case, we were really interested
in youth who are experiencing homelessness and preventing HIV because almost one in 10 youth
who are experiencing homelessness have HIV, which is compared to 0.0.2% of the housed population.
So we're talking, you know, orders of magnitude more HIV risk. And that's because, you know,
these young people are, you know, they're from very risky backgrounds where they're, you know,
they're coming from very abusive households, lots of substance abuse in those families,
substance abuse amongst the young people themselves. They get involved in exchange sex in the
impartus survive. And also they're just having, you know, you know, sex in sexual relationships
with people that are also in risky environments. And so it's just a, it's a dangerous
from a sexual health standpoint life to live. But, you know, HIV is very preventable if people
use condoms, if people get tested for HIV regularly, if you can inform people about, you know,
some myths and realities about HIV testing. And so that's the sort of the public health goal.
But then the challenge is that youth who are experiencing homelessness are really transient,
their relationships come and go very quickly. They themselves are very mobile as a population. So
they're kind of hanging out in a specific part of a city for a while. Then they move to another
part of the city, maybe even to another city. So you want to, when you want to spread
health information in that community, you have to do it, and you have to do it quickly and
efficiently. So therefore the engineering process becomes really compelling because can we
implement a version of these studies where we can, where we can pick the ideal set or nearly
ideal set of young people to be that we would work with intensively on a short-term basis.
And then they work in their communities to advocate for the health of their, of their friends.
And so that project was really exciting. We had some graduate students in computer science
who worked on the algorithms. I had some graduate students in social work who worked on developing
the actual HIV prevention, intervention, you know, training and how to work with the young people
face to face. And we had some successful papers that won awards, that students won on the computer
science side, projects that got funded and had a lot of visibility on the social work side
for my students. And we were lucky enough to get a grant funded by the state of California,
California HIV research project. They gave us almost a million dollars to do a large-scale study,
and we actually did an experimental study where we had 714 homeless youth over the course of two
years that we enrolled in this program and watched, you know, whether or not we could use the AI-driven
influence maximization peer leader selection process to improve the impact of this intervention.
And we did. And it was, it was really gratifying. I mean, I remember the first time that I ran the
data after the project had, we had gotten some initial, the initial data back from the field.
And I just sat there shaking my head, oh my god, it actually worked. I mean, it's one thing as
a social scientist to see these simulation models where, you know, you can see that, you know,
from a, from a mathematical basis that this ought to be more efficient and it ought to have a
greater impact. It's another thing to actually see the numbers of real human beings who were
impacted be greater when you use those algorithms versus when you didn't. And it was just unbelievably
exciting to have that happen. And so, you know, and that really took in terms of like those three
lessons. I mean, you know, it was the social science team, the computer science team, but also the
community. So, you know, the young people themselves and, and three big community agencies that
work with homeless youth and Los Angeles worked with us very closely on that project. And it was
the collaborations there, the long process of learning to talk to one another and really iterating.
I mean, it was the, the final, the final algorithm that we tested with 700 people was, I think,
the fourth or fifth iteration of the, the influence maximization algorithm. So it was not, you know,
we had some of them were computational solutions that were discarded for improved computational
solutions. And some of them were computational solutions that we tested and then said, well,
now we've learned a new problem. We need to fix that as well. So here's a, here's a computational,
new computational solution to an even more complex field problem. So it was, it was really interesting
and gratifying work. And, you know, and I think the one, yeah, so, so I mean, that was, that was,
that was kind of how it started. And that's the work that I did with, with, with Millen, and then,
you know, and that was really the project that was the, the center piece really of him and my
creating the center at USC back in 2016 and the fall, because we had just gotten funded
to, for that study, we had just gotten, you know, I think the second paper that we'd written with
some students in computer science had one on award working on this project. We had some other
people that were really getting excited about the work that we were doing and we decided to
create this center with some other faculty and just bring people are, you know, our students and
faculty together to start working in these interdisciplinary projects. And, and, you know,
and that's really what I've been doing for the last five years, you know, is, is, is now just doing
social science, computer science, hybrid projects. And, and, and kind of talking about this
idea of learning to communicate in different languages, it's, what extent did that extend to
the different ways that you might approach assessment and measurement in a project like that as a
social scientist, you know, versus, you know, Millen's approach and the computer science approach
of kind of assessing the algorithmic performance of that, that specific model.
Yeah, now that's an interesting question. I think, so computer scientists often get data
that is relatively robust data. So, for example, you know, if you're getting, you know,
click through rates from web pages like that data, it's pretty solid data. It's not messy
data. In the social sciences, we often deal with very, very, very messy data because it's collected
by human beings from the self-reports of human beings. And, you know, if you're interested in
say studying, you know, youth who are experiencing homelessness over time, you've got to find those
people again, right? And, you know, you've got to find those people again, you've got to create
situations in which they feel like they can tell you the truth. You've got to create, you know, data
collection techniques that are in language that those people understand, right? So, I mean, it's like,
you know, you as an academic may understand a sentence that's got double negatives,
but when you are talking to a 18-year-old who is a high school dropout, a double negative
sentence may be completely, you know, confusing. I mean, it may not always be, but certainly,
you know, you have to deal with with this as a reality. And, and then there's also, there's also
messiness that I've experienced in working with computer scientists and social scientists together
when we work with community partners and we're trying to use their existing administrative data.
So, sometimes people get really excited about the fact that social service agencies
collect a lot of data on their interactions with their clients over time. And that's a really
exciting thing, but the challenge there is that the data is usually entered by social workers
who are overworked, who may not necessarily prioritize data entry rigor over, you know,
helping somebody find a house, right? And so, it's like, oh, at the end of the day, oh, yeah,
right, I got to enter these things and then I'm trying to remember what it is that I did over the
course of the day and, you know, and, you know, oh, you know, I'll do it tomorrow kind of thing,
you know, and so things get forgotten, things get, get entered incorrectly, you know. And so,
there's a lot of uncertainty, which is actually why it's been for me. One of the things that's
been really fun is that as a social scientist, the way that we used to have to deal with uncertainty,
or the way I used to have to deal with uncertainty is, okay, I'm going to do some basic statistical
modeling and there's just going to be a lot of error. And at the end of the day, I'm going to have
to talk about it at the end of my paper, what I understand as the complexity of the sources of
these errors, like some of the errors, like some of the things I just described to you. But with
computer scientists, sometimes they talk about, you know, robustness, right? So it's like, okay,
well, if we can, if we can actually kind of delineate what it is, the world of uncertainty
is, we can actually try to design some algorithms that are kind of best solutions in spite of the
presence of this uncertainty or error, which as a, which as a social scientist was mind-blowing,
when I first started talking to them, I was like, you, but it's really kind of the difference
between treating data in sort of this very 20th century kind of way. It's like data as is versus
treating data in a much more probabilistic fuzzy kind of way, which has become much more the,
the realm of data science and computer science. And so it's really exciting, but still as a social
scientist, I think one of the things that I can do is I can help the data science folks to understand
what is, what are the sources of messiness in this data that we need to be paying attention to?
You know, because you know, and there are things that, you know, I may know from sort of years
of collaborating with community partners about the nature of these data that could be helpful,
which isn't to say that you couldn't be a very thoughtful data scientist and make a good connection
with a community agency and really talk to them in great detail about how they collected their
data and what it all means and these sorts of things. But there's sort of a, I don't know,
I think the three, the kind of this triangle, so to speak, of computer science, social science,
and community collaborations really is a nice combination of partnerships where there's some,
there's some real value added by everybody who comes to the table there.
Let's maybe talk about some of the other collaborations and projects you've worked on.
Sure, sure, no, I'd love to. So one of the ones that I'm, so first of all, I guess it's one
thing to say is that, you know, as personally as an academic, most of my work has been around
homelessness over the years. And so while HIV prevention is certainly one of the issues that
people face, I've also done a lot of work around housing and housing intervention.
And, and, and, and then my center, and I'll come back to the housing intervention in a minute,
but the center itself, we've got several areas that we focus in on. So we're, we're interested in
what we think of as, as sort of robust resilient communities, which is in a sense like planning for
disasters and really the, the, the, the impact on human populations of global climate change is a big
part of this. There's also some, some work that we've done on, on, on conservation as well. But
then most of them are a little bit more, you know, hardcore social work driven. So it's, you know,
health and mental health. We're, we're really interested in homelessness is a lot of the work
that we do. We have a specific focus on suicide prevention. And we also have a big focus on
substance abuse interventions as well, because of the, some of the other social scientist
collaborators that, that are like, I have a colleague in front of Jordan Davis, who, who's an expert
in substance abuse interventions. And he is, you know, he's, he's working in that area. And those
are part of our portfolio. And so the, the two projects that I've been working on, other than the
one that I just described with Millen, the most intensely over the last years, it is, our last
couple of years has been one in suicide prevention and one in, in housing allocation. And so the,
the suicide prevention project is working really on trying to use some machine learning predictive
analytics to understand network level interactions between people. I'm really interested in social
networks, which is going to come up over and over again. And trying to understand like really who it
is that people turn to in times of need when their mental health is really, when they're really
suffering and trying to understand if we can do some data mining of network data to try to understand
better who might be people that could be eventually intervention allies, kind of in the same way
that we thought about the intervention allies in the, in the HIV prevention study. So, you know,
the HIV prevention study had a lot of social science work before I got involved in data mining
types type of work that led to the, the, eventually the, the models that we created for interventions.
And so likewise, we're doing stuff with suicide prevention. And we're working with a couple
different populations, there are three actually. One is college students, another is homeless youth,
again, homeless youth. I'm all about homeless adolescents. And then the third is actually working
with folks in the army. And so we actually have a study that we, that we just finished doing the
field work on where we, we, we, we looked at a, a battalion who had experienced a very high profile
member of their community had died by suicide. And then we were allowed to come in and interview
about 250 of these soldiers who had been impacted by this suicide about how they were talking with
one another. You know, and so we've got, I don't know, something like, you know, 250 humans and maybe
2,000 connections and the ways that they're communicating about ideas. And it's, it's really,
we've just barely gotten into it. But it's, it should be really, hopefully really impactful to,
to help the, you know, the folks in the army as well. And so it's like, there's a variety of
populations that are impacted by suicide. You know, and unfortunately actually since COVID has happened,
you know, suicide is up in the United States. And actually, I think across the world, although I
don't know the data very well outside of the United States. And, and, and I think that, you know,
so it's, it's timely to be, you know, thinking about these issues. But then the other project that
we're jumping in to mention, because I remember going down this path and the conversation with
Millen, where at time he said, network, I was thinking, oh, okay, so we're mining social network
information for, you know, relationships. But in fact, that's not typically the case in your work.
It's more about using social work techniques to try to understand the implicit networks
among the participants in your studies. Is that right? You know, that's a really good thing to,
to clarify, because I think in the most people when you say networks these days, think about
Twitter networks or Instagram networks or Facebook networks, right? And what, what, what I'm talking
about usually is, and at least in the context of homeless youth was face to face networks of
conversation networks that people have that are these really, I guess you might think of as
implicit networks that, you know, you can observe people talking to each other, right? But there's no,
there's no, I friended you, right? On the streets, like, like, I'm talking to you, because you're
my friend, but we don't, we don't like, you know, there's no formal linkage through a, through a
software, right? And I think the same is true with folks that we're talking about in the army. So
you've got in, in a sense, you know, when you're looking at people that are in a battalion,
in a formal sense, they're all connected, right? Like these are, you know, these are platoons that
are within, you know, there's like these nested structures and there's these formal networks,
but then there's also informal networks, right? So not everybody that I work with, do I necessarily
trust with the, you know, my deepest, darkest fears and secrets, that's a subset of people. And
when you're talking about people that are, you know, sort of like on base, getting ready to gear
up for deployment, which is who the folks that we were talking to were, you know, they're also talking
to their spouses, if their spouse lives on base with them, their kids, if their kids live on base
with them, their girlfriends, if they've, or boyfriends, if they've got a girlfriend or boyfriend that's,
you know, in the, in the community, or frankly, friends from high school, or girlfriends or
boyfriends that aren't on base and aren't even in, you know, the nearby, the, the base, but they're,
you know, whatever, 3,000 miles away in California or something like this. And so,
but some of those connections are Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, you know, Snapchat, whatever.
But, but most of the time when I'm thinking about networks, I'm thinking about them in a more
kind of, you know, abstract social work sense, which is the sort of sense of, like, you know,
we're all networked together as human beings. And, but, but how we define those networks is, is,
can be very important. And, and rarely do I do work where we are, say, mining Twitter networks
or something like this. I mean, I've got some colleagues that do that work. And it's really cool.
There's some really interesting questions to answer there. But most of the questions that I've
been interested in over the years because of my focus on, especially people who are experiencing
homelessness who have limited access to technology, right? I mean, it's like most of the people
that I've worked with over the years, like they have a cell phone. But, you know, oftentimes,
they don't have any, their data plan is, is, is, doesn't work. And so it's kind of like a Wi-Fi device.
And so they're like finding a, you know, it's like, so yeah, they're using social media, but they're,
but the homeless youth that I'm looking at are, they're using it on like a daily basis or a weekly
basis, not an hourly basis, the way that you would think about like a young adult who, you know,
has a, you know, typical 20-year-old in America is like glued to their phone. Whereas,
a homeless youth would love to be glued to their phone. They just don't have the resources to
be glued to their phone, you know. And so in terms of the, this applying machine learning to the
social networks to try to identify and prevent suicide, what's the general approach and
where does machine learning come into play there? Sure, sure. So, so, so what we're, what we're doing
is that we've collected through some surveys. We ask people to talk to us, or to, to, to delineate
in these surveys, the 10 or 20 people that they talk to the most frequently. And then we ask them
in a, a battery of, you know, I think it's about 30 or 40 questions about who these people are,
the frequency of which you talk to them, what are the means by which you talk to them, what do you
talk to them about, what roles do they occupy in your life, you know, things like, you know,
if you needed to borrow, you know, a thousand dollars, is there anyone on this network that you
could do that from? When you are feeling, you know, if, if you were feeling yourself suicidal,
who would you go into? Is there anyone in this network space that you would talk to?
Who did you know before you joined the service? Who, who on here is a family member?
Is there anyone on here that's a romantic partner? How frequently do you talk to each of these
people, these sorts of things? And then, and then that becomes a data set that has
thousands of diads. So thousands of relationships that have a lot of information, a lot of features
about those relationships. And then rather than approaching it in kind of the traditional social
science way, which is to say, well, we a priori hypothesize that these four or five factors are the
things that are important. And so we're going to look at some statistical models and see what,
and see if those four or five things are statistically significantly associated with, say, the,
the ability to communicate about suicidal thoughts to a particular person as an outcome, you know,
here we're going to, we're going to do some data mining, right? So we'll just do some predictive
analytics, right? Like let's just throw in all the features that we've got in the data set,
you know, and, and see what, and see what shakes out, you know, and, and so then it's, you know,
and with, it was only a couple of thousand people, you know, you can, you know, yeah, I mean,
convolutional neural networks probably aren't going to work, right? But, but certainly you can do
things like decision trees and, and, and random forests and, you know, maybe even some, you know, SVMs
or whatever. But, but even those, those contributions thinking about letting the data speak for itself
is, is, is, is not the way that traditionally social scientists have, have, have done things. And,
and, and there are some interesting ways in which, when you're, when you're stuck in, when you're
stuck in the world of linear models, like, logistic regressions, like, like traditional statistical
modeling, social scientists come up with very linear answers to relationships between variables.
The nice thing about the way the computer scientists have, and data scientists have started to
look at things is that sometimes non-linear combinations of variables are really, are really
what's happening in the world. Like, the, and, and that is a very interesting new way of thinking
about things that, that social sciences are, I think, benefiting from in recent, and recent years. But,
yeah, so it's, it's, so that's kind of how we would, how would use it. And then, and then the idea
would be, especially if we could use a, if the models are ones that have more transparency to,
to how they work and what the, and what the underlying features are, then we can know what are the
important features to track over time. And then as we move forward towards thinking about intervention
models, you could think about creating small assessments that could then help you very quickly
identify people who could be targets of intervention down the road. So, who are the types of people
that, that, homeless youth need to talk, need to be having their, in their networks, cultivate
in their networks to talk about suicide, or who are the people in, in these, you know, these,
these, in networks of soldiers that people need to talk to, and trying to identify who those people
might be. I don't know if that, that makes sense, but that's kind of the, the, the thrust of the ideas.
It sounds like the initial phase of the research is to understand these communities and build a
model. And then later on, you start to experiment with, or apply the model to determining which
interventions are likely to be the, the most successful. And they're kind of distinct phases.
It sounds like. Yeah, yeah. I mean, and this is interesting because I think this is something that
both engineers and social workers think about a lot. Like there's, there's the, trying to understand
the world phase of things, which oftentimes is sort of prediction, right? And then there's the,
what do we do, phase of things, which is, which oftentimes, you know, I hear computer scientists say
prescription is the, is the phrase I've heard like Eric Horowitz say from Microsoft research say,
like here's prescription, prediction, then prescription. And the way that, you know, social scientists
think about is oftentimes when you're looking at like trying to intervene with risky communities,
you usually think about the first phase of the research is trying to understand what are the
risk and protective factors that you could then leverage in your intervention phase of things.
And that really basically boils down to prediction and then prescription. And then so it's like,
again, language difference, right? Well, we're talking about two very analogous, you know, phases
of work. And it's been interesting to me how much social work and engineering share in world
views, even though the techniques are very different. Because in both engineering and this,
I think, you know, when you end and in social work, the idea is to do not necessarily to do science
for the sake of science, but it's to do science for the sake of creating solutions to problems.
And in the case of social work, it's social problems. In the case of engineering, it can be,
you know, physical problems as well as social problems. But now my experience with this sort of AI
for social good, you know, universe is that there's a lot of computer scientists that want to work
on social problems. And so, you know, we're, you know, trying, at least I'm trying my best to sort of,
you know, work with those folks and see what else, you know, what new things can come out of those
collaborations. Great, great. I want to make sure we talk about a third project that you mentioned.
Oh, yeah. It sounds like, well, it's relating to systemic racism. And I believe it's housing
specific. Yeah, thank you. It's like, the project, I'm probably most, I'm most invested in right
now. And I forgot to talk about Phoebe Viandos, who's my partner, and this would kill me.
So, yeah, so, so, so I've got this wonderful project that we're working on.
We've got a partnership with the LA Housing Service Authority. I also have a partnership with
some people at UCLA in the, in the, in the Semmel Institute of Nurse Psychiatry as well as the,
as the, as well as the, the California Policy Lab, then people in, in the, you know,
the School of Engineering at USC. So, there's this large group of people who've got community
partners. And what we are doing there is we are, the problem that we're trying to solve is,
how do we identify people who are in the greatest need for housing resources and make sure that
they get the best interventions possible. And the challenge with this is that in a lot of communities
like Los Angeles and many other big cities across the country, there are more people who experience
homelessness than there are resources to go around, right? So LA, for example, every night has
about 60,000 people who are either living in an emergency shelter around the streets.
LA Housing Service Authority placed the most human beings of any community into housing
last year, relative to anyone. It was 20,000 people, right? So you can see there's a huge disconnect
between, you know, the available resources and, and, and what they're. So the challenge then is
who do you serve? And so one of the thrusts has been to serve people that are considered to be the
most vulnerable. And then, so then, okay, that sounds great. Like we don't want people to die on the
streets. So we're going to try to, we're going to try to make sure that we get people who need
these resources the most into housing. But then the challenge becomes, is this fair? And you can
kind of think about this in a few different ways. One is, are the resources allocated fairly,
meaning, you know, if there's 40% of the homeless population in LA that's black, which is what,
which is what we have, are 40% of the resources going to black people. And what we find is the answer
to that is yes. But then, if you ask the question, are, are black people succeeding in those housing
allocation as it, at the same rates? What we're seeing is that you're the likelihood that people
return back to homelessness after getting a housing intervention seems to be higher for black
and Latinx folks than it is for white folks. So then the question is, okay, so we're trying to do
this and we're trying to do this fairly. But can we, can we, can we really do this in a way that
is genuinely mitigating a history in the United States of housing inequality that, that, especially
bullet bot communities experience, but also the Latinx community is experiencing. And, and so what
we're trying to do is we're trying to, and the way that this is done is that in the, in, in most
communities in the US, they use these triage tools. It's like a survey instrument where we ask about,
you know, about 40, 40 to 50 questions about terrible things that happened to you in your life.
Like, have you been, have you been arrested? Do you have a substance abuse problem? Do you have health
issues like HIV? And on and on and on. Have you been abused? And then the more of those risk
factors that you have, the more vulnerable you are and the more likely you are then to be served by
these, you know, the, the scarce housing resources. But there are a couple of different housing
resources that most communities have. Some of them are short-term rental subsidies and others
are more long-term programs that have extensive social services and social workers that are attached
to them. And so one of the things that Phoebe Vianos and I have been working on and this is
really her area of expertise is really these resource allocation problems. So given that we have
this information about about, in this case with, with LA, we've got tens of thousands of people
every year that are housed. And we've got this history of information about these risk factors.
And then we have a history of information about, did you get a rental subsidy or did you get these
more these the what we call permanent supportive housing, which is this more robust form of housing.
Then we can look at what are the features of people in the past who've done well in each
of those interventions. And then we can see whether or not we can allocate resources
differentially. Because the current system basically says the highest risk people get the
get the most intensive resources, the medium risk people get the get the get the interventions,
which is kind of, which is better than nothing. It's it's thoughtful, but we can do better.
Right. So and so the what we find, especially with the context of people who have experienced
a lot of, you know, systemic racism and inequality, you know, in in the housing market is that
when we reallocate resources such that, well, one of the issues is that when you have,
you have to do fair machine learning, right. So you don't just want to, if you're, if you're,
if your machine learning is based on a majority white population, but it's, but it's inaccurately
then characterizing the black population and the Latinx population, you may actually
misallocate people because they don't fit the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the modal categories,
right. So there's those issues that come into play. And then there's issues about just
allocating resources differently, depending on what people's histories within these systems
have been. And so what we're trying to do now is, is, is redesign the, the use of these survey
assessments that are these vulnerability assessments to try to serve the communities better. And at
least our preliminary, preliminarily, the, the computational experiments that we've been working
on would suggest that you can do a lot better than, than what we've done in the past by both
improving the, the, the, the decreasing the bias in the machine learning processes and then
reallocating resources to, to, you know, to match people in a more thoughtful way than just kind of
really risky gets really good. Medium risky gets pretty good, you know, that you can do better than
that. So, so that's, that's the other project that I'm really invested in. And, and I might have
explained it in a much quicker way than, than the other ones, which is probably unfair to my
commitment to it. But, but I also feel like I kind of rambled on about all of these other ones. So,
but yeah, it's, it's, it's, but it's really exciting. I mean, one thing that's really
exciting about that project is that because we have this partnership with the LA Housing Service
Authority, if we can come up with a viable, some viable solutions, you know, we could potentially
help thousands of people be allocated to more appropriate resources, which would increase the
likelihood that people would succeed in those resources, which would mean potentially that over
time, you know, thousands of people will not return to homelessness that would have returned to
homelessness. And that's, that seems like a really big deal. And, and, and so the social impact of
this could be, could be quite, could be quite large if we, if we do, if we do a good job. And,
and it's exciting to, to get to work on a project like that, frankly. And what stage are you at,
with that? Are you just getting started? So, so we, we are, we've been working on this for a
couple of years. We have a couple of more years in the current grant project that we're working on.
I don't know that will be done entirely by the time, you know, that project is done. It may be one
of these things that, you know, it kind of becomes, you know, something that we work on for, for
wildbies, as I said before, iteration is part of the game, right? So, I, but we will, you know,
my, my, there, there's going to be things in the next, you know, year or so that we will be pilot
testing with, with, with, with in Los Angeles to see how things work. But, you know, kind of larger
scale implementation may take longer. I mean, there's also a huge, I mean, the reality is that
there's a huge political process that's involved in all of this as well, because, you know, housing
is not something that just, there's a, you know, the federal government provides a lot of this
money. Local communities have a, a huge vested interest in how these resources get done. So,
even if we come up with a genius engineering, so engineering slash social work solution to this,
the community then has to still say, like, hey, we think this is important. And part of how we're
doing that is that we have a really heavily involved community process, like we've got a lot of
people that we meet with regularly who themselves have been home, lived through homelessness,
or, and, or who are providers of homelessness resources. We work closely with the LA Housing
Service Authority. We work closely with the departmental health. And we, we talk to all of these
people every step of the way and really get them to help tell us where, you know, where our blind
spots are and how to, and how to pivot. Because, like I said before, you know, social scientists may
contribute a lot to the dialogue, but, but also the, the boots on the ground people who live these,
who live with this, you know, these issues and, and, and with trying to implement solutions also have
insights that, that are valuable. And so, we all come together and we're trying the best that we can.
And, and hopefully that'll mean that people will be more eager to, to, to try these solutions out. But
it's a, it's not, it's not a foregone conclusion that just a good engineering solution gets implemented.
But hopefully this one will, and I think that there's a lot of reason to think that it will,
because of the community participation that we have.
Awesome. Awesome. Yeah.
Well, Eric, thanks so much for joining us today.
Hey, thank you for working on this very cool stuff.
Well, I really appreciate it and thanks for inviting me and, and, and, and pleasure to meet you and,
and, and good luck. Thanks, Eric. All right. Thanks.
