Hi, everyone. I'm super excited to be back here at the process AI marketplace and especially
please for the opportunity to speak with Prashant on the topic of building technical communities
and the opportunities created by data and AI. As Paul mentioned, I will be monitoring the Q&A
panel for your questions and we'll either work them in or we'll have some time at the end.
But I'm really looking forward to this. So let's just dive in.
Prashant, I imagine that everyone here in our audience has some personal experience with stack
overflow as a user. But what can you tell us to help us understand the scale of what you've built?
Yeah, I know. Thank you, Sam, for inviting me here and for moderating the session.
I also congrats to you for building such an amazing community around this space,
particularly in AI and ML. So it's been amazing to see all of you accomplished.
So yeah, so stackable flow, I think, again, I can't take all the credit for it,
so it's really our community and our founders and the team that has been here for about 13 years.
We were founded in 2008. I joined as the new CEO in 2019 and we had several amazing
leaders that have joined since to help us scale to the next level. But the scale at which we
all create is massive. So we have close to 100 million monthly visitors from around the world.
There is no geography that we don't touch for the most part. We have something like 50 million
questions and answers on every possible technology topic. So everything from an Amazon web
services, which has under 250,000 questions and answers or something like even data science,
which is obviously an idea to this audience, we have something like 31,000 questions in that
sort of space alone or any scripting language, programming language, you name it, right? So
all that content exists in a very sort of significant way. And that information has been access
close to 50 billion times since our inception. So the impact on what we arrive in the industry
is massive. And since we are talking to a data-specific audience, just to put that in terms of
terabytes, in terms of the public, the public actually has access in all of you. The audience
have access to about one terabyte worth of questions and answers and comments that are available
for your own sort of analysis and other things that you can do with that. But internally,
we have something close to 70 terabytes of data available for our own internal analysis. So you
know, fairly meaningful scale. And having said all that, I would still say that we're fairly early
in that sort of evolution. But I'd hopefully give you a sense of how large we are and we operate,
you know, obviously globally. That's awesome. Awesome. So beyond the stats and figures,
what are some surprising things you can tell us about Stack Overflow that, you know, most folks
might not realize or know? Yeah, I think most people know us as the public website with all the stats
that I just explained. And that's been sort of, you know, what has been, you know, driving the
impact from the industry for the past 13 years. But most people probably don't know or do not know
that we have a very thriving, fast growing SaaS business and a very fast growing advertising
focused business. And those are two business lines that have been sort of, you know,
thriving throughout the history of the company. But more recently, our SaaS transformation,
just one of the reasons I came on board along with the two other leaders is really been really
exceptional to see, right? That is effectively a private version of our public platform that I
explained for enterprises and other sort of organizations to use internally to collaborate
asynchronously using the same platform that developers and technologists have been enjoying with
the vast decade or so. So that is, you know, probably the most unknown fact when people go to
Stack Overflow through a Google search, landed an answer. They typically get the answer. They're
in the workflow of trying to, you know, again, unstuck and they're on their way. But typically,
what now we're beginning to surface and more and more that, you know, we have these paid products
that are equally useful and value added for a user as they say they operate within organizations
and companies. Great, great. Paul mentioned that you joined in October of 2019. So just about two
years ago and you stepped into the role that was previously held by the company's very well-known
founder, Joel Spolsky. And, you know, Jeff Atwood as well, like a very strong founder
culture at the company and curious about how that transition came about, what the culture of
the organization was like and what were your priorities when you joined? Yeah, no, absolutely,
I think, you know, it's a, it's a huge blessing to have amazing founders, right? Joel Spolsky
and Jeff Atwood are 100% credited with, you know, what they've actually built, right? They
along with the community and the stackers that have, they were here in the first decade of the
company, built this amazing community and public platform that, you know, the stats that I mentioned
are a product of their sort of very, you know, lots of volunteers to be very thoughtful about
how to make trade-offs and how to ensure ultimately that the best answer is ultimately a deliver
to somebody that is stuck in a, you know, in a technical situation. And so what happened was,
you know, the company grew, you know, in terms of its impact and then there was this question of
what is the sort of sustainable business model for the company point for? So there was this sort of
existential question and Jeff Atwood had to left the company several years ago as the first
one. So the remaining founder, Joel, was the CEO of the company. And through 2019, you know, he,
he sort of just along with the board of the company, which is, you know, all, you know,
previous field, one of the, you know, the fairly prominent venture capital firms like Union Square
Ventures and Index Ventures and Spark and then recent Horowitz and so on, decided that it was
time to bring in some extra to the perspective. Somebody who had helped grow a very rapidly,
you know, scaling organization, especially as we thought about the SaaS business model of the
software as a service business model. So, you know, Lauren, and you know, fast forward a little
bit after about 250 interviews with many different people, you know, they literally, you know, I
think they, they, they, they talked about this green about 250 candidates. They did end up
finding me and I was a relevant for the role and for a couple of the mentors. One is, of course,
I was a user of stack, all my teams at RAC spaces through the introduction was mentioned,
you stack all flow throughout, you know, so I, so I was obviously very aware of it, my teams
were aware of it. So there's an appreciation for what this community stands for and what it does.
And at the same time, my experience, my personal experience of having sort of helped scale
the cloud services business at RAC space to help pivot it from a data center company or
manage hosting company to more of a services company on delivering services cloud services on top of AWS
Azure and Google Cloud, that, that which became one of the fastest growing businesses at RAC space,
that experience was also relevant here because there's a sort of opportunity with this raw material
and the, you know, this diamond and the rough with stack all flow, how do we really scale the
organization? So those two sort of elements, one, my own sort of, you know, sort of real appreciation for
what this community is all about. And secondly, my experience is really ultimately what, you know,
brought me here. And since then, you know, we've hired some amazing leaders who you're asking how
the transition's been beyond, of course, meeting with community members, my, you know, my first year,
meeting with customers, meeting with stackers, as we call them, my employees. And really, you know,
I'm a fairly hands-on person on that in that regard, you know, I think it really is important for
leaders in my opinion to be, to understand and to have context when making decisions. That gave me
perspective, okay, like we have a certain set of things that we need to do here, the gaps in the
organization, the types of new leaders we need to bring in. And very soon, I was able to bring in,
you know, several very, very capable folks in her first, my first hire was the chief product
officer and technology officer Teresa Dietrich, who is connected with this group now,
amazing leader, who's leading, you know, a product engineering and community efforts in the company,
Tim Miner, CRO, who's a fantastic revenue leader, who's leading all our sales efforts and
customer success efforts and really driving the predictable revenue path. And then since then,
hired several other folks to augment the existing team, so hired a new chief people officer and
a, a new CFO very recently. So all with experience of folks that have been dead on that and are able
to sort of take us to this next stage to the company and sort of evolution. So it's very much a
transformation story to get to this sort of end game, as I mentioned, with a sustainable
recurring revenue sort of business model on top of a force agree community.
So you're in a unique position of having led teams of Rackers and Stackers.
You got it. Yeah, I, my first, I got to say Sam, my first, you know, month or two, I constantly,
you know, said a mix those terms out. I was like, hey, Rackers, what are like, if people like,
whoa, what a man that got from it. It does rhyme, but yes.
Nice, nice. Little did you know after joining six months later, you'd be helping lead the
company through an event that affected many lives, many organizations, of course, the pandemic.
What was the impact of the pandemic on an at-stack overflow?
Yeah, a couple of different dimensions, right? So by the way, I joined a couple of 2019,
and I've been, you know, affected with your remote CEO for probably more than 75% of my time.
Now that comes with positive and negative. So let's just talk about both dimensions of the
impact of the company, right? So one is on the positive side. Let's start there. We've, you know,
seen a significant increase in the relevance of our company in this moment in time. Because,
you know, what we really enable is to help the world really accelerate development of technology.
And that's effectively what our mission is through shared knowledge or, you know, by sharing
knowledge with each other. And that has allowed numbers to really sort of go up. And if you look
at it, just the overall volume of the number of signups as one small proxy, you know, we have,
and I joined about 150,000 monthly signups on a public platform. This today, we see something
somewhere between 200 and 250,000 times per month. You know, again, just remember, this is 13 years
after we were founded. So not insignificant. It's only going up. If you look at the number of users,
whether they're mostly, you know, people do it somewhat sort of, they're more lurkers than they
are. So the contributors, the net net, we still have a lot more users. But we see that a number of
people on a platform increasing very steadily year-of-year. So every year, we seem to be sort of
increasing. And we've seen that increase quite be dramatic over the past couple of years since
the pandemic. Are the relevance of our plate products have also spirited? So our teams product,
staple for for teams, which I would encourage the folks in the audience. If you haven't
checked it out, we'll sign up for a premium account and try it out for yourselves and for your
own teams, which you can do on our website. You know, that is very relevant because in asynchronous
collaboration tool, that sits alongside synchronous collaboration tools like Slack and Microsoft
teams, you can just, you know, run an organization or collaborate with each other with just synchronous
tools because it's extremely, you know, debilitating for technologists. There's a lot of context
switching and, you know, it's prone for people are prone to burn out and those scenarios will be
constantly being pinged. You know, while we've been on this conversation, Sam, if I look at my
Slack window, I've got about seven, seven things, right? And what if, rather than me having to wait
an hour to respond to them, one if stackable for for teams is already responded automatically
through the Slack integration that we have by suggesting questions and answers that have already
been documented through our system. So that's the product that we have stackable for for teams,
has just one small example. But the point is that that product's relevance in the context of
remote work and hybrid work has gone up, you know, very significantly. So we're very much in
big enterprises making the case for why they should use our product. And then our advertising
business which in relevance is also sort of increased because people want quality places to showcase
their products that are helping with acceleration of technology development and all the other buzzwords
like visual transformation. But the idea is that we are the place, we are the place where the
communities for technologists exist. And that's why it's so powerful. So that's all the good stuff,
right? And maybe one of the good stuff had one other good point I mentioned is that we've been
really able to expand the locations of where we were hiring people from. For example, all the
leaders I mentioned to you, a bunch of them have come from California. You know, we were known as
a New York based startup and we've been able to really expand our aperture on the types of people
we hire. So those are all, you know, positive things. Now the negative things about what's happened
is that it's taken a personal toll to the, as you mentioned, you know, to people all around the
world. And you know, I think a lot of different issues have sort of come to the surface around the
world that we've had to sort of navigate as a company and support our staffers to make sure
they feel supported. So this is everything from, you know, personal health issues to families that
are affected to, you know, racial bias to, you know, all of this is sort of all has sort of, you
know, a company together. And that's been a very challenging time. And, you know, 2020 was
absolutely challenging. And, you know, we even had to sort of make certain visits in our own company
where we moved away from certain products, a particular product, our talent product,
those folks on job listings, we moved away from it because we just felt like that was a very sort
of a bus type of product, which is, you know, if you're people are hiring, you hire people are not,
you don't. And it was also somewhat disparate from our overall strategy. So, and that had some
people implications, which is unfortunate always. But the point being that it was, you know,
there's plenty of things that, you know, also, so we had to navigate the negative. But overall,
though, I think we're better for it. There's founders, a company where more we've, you know,
zoned in on what we are as a company. And that's hot.
So one more transition I want to ask you about. And that is the acquisition by process. How did
that come to be? Yeah, you know, it's somewhat organic. I think, you know, ultimately what,
you know, really brought us together was that process is mission statement is very, very
aligned with what we care about, right? So if I'm stating that mission correctly, it's like,
you know, process that does leading consumer internet companies and empower people in enriched
communities. When you think about that statement, that that speaks immediately to the heart and
soul of this company. And that's what's so exciting about, you know, really sort of working with
process. And for us, it's, you know, we were thinking about, it wasn't something that we sought out.
It was something that's sort of like I mentioned, organic, it just sort of happened with the sort
of the series of events. But we've always been approached by companies throughout our history,
right? And the question was around, who was somebody that we could to the partner with for
the long term, who could help think big and really understood the potential of this company
and the ability to go 10x relative to where we are today and this, this diamond, the rough type of
approach. And really, who has an international and global perspective that matches the global
community that we have, which is literally from all around the world, right? And then this
edtech angle, which you know, with Larry Elk, who's the CEO of the Edtech portfolio, was a very
interesting element for us because if you think about what we do, we implicitly allow people to
learn, you know, technologists and developers to learn. And the edtech angle is very exciting because
learning does start with a question generally speaking, you know, people really, that's how we
typically learn versus just going, you know, with more traditional ways. And so this huge focus
on the most important community emerging markets, international orientation and edtech,
with the reasons why we ultimately saw that this is really, you know, I think a powerful combination
for us to work in a long term sense, but by thinking really big.
And kind of on that point of community, you know, let's transition from the transition
questions and talk a little bit about how the company thinks about community and collaboration
and enabling these things at the scale of what you operate. Yeah, so I mean, ultimately, like I've
mentioned Sam, I think hybrid workforces are here to stay, right? And to like think that is not
going away any time, even the pandemic disappears. I think there's so many studies now done that
employees really, really appreciate the flexibility of, you know, being able to
and reduce that commute hours, you know, two hours to, you know, zero, and also be having the flexibility
to then to sort of have a little bit more control about, you know, their balance and their work life
and so on. So I think by the same time, there's a very important, you know, kind of, it's important
to understand the impact of synchronous communication and collaboration, unless it's sort of asynchronous
collaboration. And so it's important as we sort of balance out things like burnout, et cetera.
So ultimately, you know, when we think about how do we scale, you know, this community,
I think a lot of it has to do with making sure that, you know, we are solving very specific
problems to empower team members to share knowledge, you know, both actively and reactively.
And you know, most of the sort of knowledge management tools that sort of exist today
solve one or the other. I mean, be keys and file storage are focused on more like
proactive knowledge sharing. And so information is likely lacking and there's offer, there's always
they sort of offer no real way to foster collaboration and things like email and chat are very
sort of instantaneous. So we believe that, you know, there's too much reliance on one person. So we
really, we really believe that it's an opportunity to build communities through our products and our
public community, which is sort of a fundamental way in which you can do that. And so that's,
you know, I think ultimately, these communities, when we think about the kind of the focus of how
we want to scale, we think about it as the external community and we talk about internal communities.
And the external communities is public platform and the public community and then these internal
community communities is through stack overflow teams. And then we also have something in between
that we call collectives on stack overflow, which is sort of in between. It's a sort of a pseudo
public pseudo private space on stack overflow, where companies like technology companies like a
Google or a GitLab, et cetera, or even open source communities like Roland or Google language can
build their communities on top of stack overflow and live over the world garden. So they can have a
sort of a sort of a very sort of a hyper focused space on their technologies to engage with
their power users and so on. So we really believe, and as you know, Teresa, she thought of,
I would say creating sort of this sort of link between public and private and having sort of
that the pebbles between those sort of, those sort of, you know, in the valley sort of speak,
is sort of how we are approaching skating out these products. And all three of them are very
relevant, you know, it's public community hybrid as well as private.
And so what, what's the relationship between stack overflow, the company and the various
communities that you sewer? Is it a very hands-on one? Is it very distributed? What's the governance
model? How do you think about all of the kind of management challenges that come along with growing
communities? Yeah, I don't, you know, so ultimately, you know, we have a few principles that we operate
with to make sure that we are managing our relationship with the community in a productive way.
So ultimately, I just give you all all role principles, right? When we think about communities,
and I've spoken about the subject a few times, one is we want to focus on a shared identity,
a really big problem that everybody wants to work on together, and we have that here with stack.
Secondly, to create sort of sufficient incentives for people to contribute and participate
in that system. And in our case, it's about, you know, really helping out your fellow developers,
about showcasing your knowledge as the best Python programmer in the world, being recognized for it,
and so on. Thirdly, it's about building with the community versus for the community. And that's
important because, you know, as a company, you can't just sort of impose a bunch of rules
into a very large group of people and say, just follow this, because that's not really inclusive,
plus it's not really not really going to have the buy-in to be able to do it. So it's a
more common sense when you're trying to operate at the scale to really have them as equal partners,
then meaning the broader public community, and you need representation to be able to do that. And it's
a very, very sort of, you know, sort of closely sort of, and sort of thoughtfully sort of a managed
sort of process to make sure that they feel very included. And fourth, it's about breaking down silos
and making sure we build bridges across, you know, these various communities, and we're doing that
with those products that I mentioned here. And ultimately, that creates all these virtuous
cycles across these various paid products and these public, public platforms. So specifically,
as it relates to community and how we engage with them, there are many different mechanisms,
you know, we've hired a really strong VP of community, formerly a dreaded Philippe Bodette,
who is, who really manages now that entire effort, who is fantastic. And the ideas for us to
partner hand-in-hand through our moderator mechanisms, through by listening to the community,
and there are multiple mechanisms to do that. We have a meta user base. We have our new
pre-news letter that we send out. And so we're constantly making sure that
we are partnering very deeply with users to make sure that they feel as much of a vested
interest when you make changes on the website. So it is definitely an obligation. It's not,
it's easier said than done. It takes up quite a bit of effort on our team's part. And that's
very unique about this company, but it is very possible because we have a very passionate group
of people that care about this big problem that we're going to solve. And do you see those
challenges that you've referenced as being unique to the technical communities, or is it,
you know, they comment across all different types of communities?
Yeah, it's a good question. I think they're just different, right? I mean,
everybody has their own problems. I think that, or challenges to sort of overcome,
the goodies that we're not a social network, right? Even though we have collaboration at the
heart of what we do, social networks have their own set of issues. At least for us, we're dealing
with very objectives, information, and it's not subjective in for the most part, right? Like,
technical information is either you have the right answer on how to solve a problem,
and you have an incorrect answer. And that could sometimes come across as harsh,
Sam, to be candid, right? Because it is, it is very sort of, it's right or wrong. And I think
that we are also trying to focus on that effort is to make sure how do we, how do people have more
of a sort of software landing spot so they get used to this sort of very right or wrong type of
approach on the platform? And again, let's not forget that that that approach has lasted for 13
years. You know, many companies have existed and died over the past decade during that time,
but they're always afraid of the due to make. So, so this community of technical folks,
yes, they can breathe, you know, I think they can be, they, you know, I think as all technical
folks are like we're all technical folks, we can be skeptical about a particular approach,
because it's always an, you know, an engineering answer that may be better or, you know, and so on.
But that that skepticism ultimately generates the right answer, and that's what people appreciate,
because they're able to solve their problem when they have, when they have an issue, right? And
that's what's powerful about it. And let's transition to talking a little bit about data and AI
at Stack Overflow, just to kind of start things off, you know, where would you characterize Stack Overflow
as being in its AI journey? Yeah, I would characterize it as Fannie, uh, Fannie Neeson, like, you know,
and Philly, Lily in our evolution. Now, having said that, I will say that, you know, uh, Teresa
are Chief Keeploffs, uh, and, you know, and on her team, she's now hired, uh, Michael Forey,
who's just an excellent, uh, you know, uh, data platform leader that he just came on board from
Capital One. And so we've made a very deliberate, uh, decision to sort of invest in this space,
because, you know, again, like I mentioned at the top of the, this conversation, you know, we have a,
tremendous amount of data that we have, right? That's the, you know, the, we want to provide
of data that's available. The public to use and the 70 terabytes that we ultimately have on all
sorts of dimensions. So the, so we are very much the goal, um, you know, and I've spent some time
with Forey's and Michael, is that you want to empower people in the company and ultimately
our community and our customers to be able to just really sort of self-serve and make the most
of the acts of the data that we have, which is amazing, right? Once a year, we do a survey, uh,
which falls about 100,000 people this past year's 85,000 people to talk about developer trends,
right? And that's our sacral flow developer survey that comes out every year. And that's great.
It has a lot of great insights, but it's a very discreet once a year type of effort. Why not
enable people where that's employees or beyond have that sort of insight on a regular, on-demand
basis? That, that'd be very powerful for us to do. And so where we are, as we were very early in
establishing sort of the phases of rollout and, you know, we're, you know, we're very much in the
process of determining, you know, establishing just, you know, all the things that you expect,
right? A data lake and a training regime, uh, we're evaluating things like Azure Blob storage,
and, you know, Snowflake and Databricks, uh, and even sort of some abstracting tools like
Data Robot, uh, and all these sort of, uh, certain evaluation is happening very, very, so by the
early level, uh, beyond that, of course, phase two will all be about the layout and actual data
team with, you know, actual data scientists, then ultimately, of course, would be things like
optimizing for latency and, and turn around time. So we're fairly early in that journey sound,
despite all the data we collected, and the team, uh, so far over the past seven years has,
done a lot of things, uh, despite not having all those sort of best-in-class type of things in
place, right? Uh, and, and, and once one example of this is, we even built something called the
unfriendly robot, our data science data team did, by going, and by building a very, very
fairly early stage AIML type of capability that basically goes and scans out all our
stackable for stack-a-change websites and flags where there are somewhat, you know,
un- tasteful comments, uh, to a question, uh, and so that is important for us again for,
you know, for novices, etc. So they have a good experience. So that is one example of how,
you know, despite not having the full foundation, both out, we are still able to do powerful
things. We've talked a bit about the, the main data set, this text data set that you have,
are there other data sets, uh, that, uh, you think are, are potentially interesting for the company?
Yeah, I think, you know, the, the data that we collect is, um, is, you know, it's quite,
it's quite robust and has, you know, there's so much opportunity to sort of analyze it, right?
If you think about what we're collecting, we do collect structured data like, uh, you know,
users and, you know, you know, it's kind of like, you know, all those sort of things are pros
and who's logged in and, you know, when they logged in and so on and so forth. The number of
questions are asked and answered and so on. But the vast majority of what we do collect is unstructured.
So, you know, free-form texts and out questions and answers and comments and tags and, you know,
it's sort of the obvious examples. Uh, we also have things like network graphs where we are able to
almost like, you know, if you think about like this sort of fluorescent liquid that goes and tracks,
exactly what happens when somebody experiences stack, you know, a user search for a particular item,
they look at then question one, question two, they copy code from question three, then they post it
another question, you know, X minutes later. So like, all that is very, very, um, you know, that's
powerful. So I think that sort of, and then of course we have code snippets beyond just text data.
So there's, there's a lot that we capture that, uh, and the commentary and the uploads and
downloads and, you know, all that is great context and gives a really sort of good, uh, sense of
the why, like, why are people actually doing what they're doing? And that's very rich for us to be
able to sort of grow and analyze. Um, and so that's, that's what's exciting. Nice, nice. Uh, you mentioned
the, uh, the unfriendly bot slot. Um, are you, uh, can you tell us a little bit more about that
project and kind of how it evolved, how it's used that kind of thing? Yeah, you know, we should,
we should have a microphone for review a deep dive on it. But I would say, you know,
ultimately, it basically leverages machine learning to scan our public platform, uh, for unfriendly
comments and the sort of, that can be sort of addressed and eliminated, right? So it's sort of a,
it's a fairly early stage, um, sort of, um, effort by us to make sure that our, our platform is
welcoming to the next generation of coders. So one of the criticisms of stack is that, hey,
as a new, as a new user, it's quite harsh of an environment because, you know, I'm asking you
a very simple question and I thought, shot down by somebody on the platform because they thought
it was not a great question. And the answer that, you know, that, that system has existed
and to make sure that the right answer and the right questions are asked the quality of information
very high. And that was a trade off that was made as part of a principle of setting up the platform.
But how, but this friendly robot is mostly, it's there to sort of improve the experience of
the average user, the novice user. At the same time, we are evaluating other software landing zones,
like, you know, a place where people can just sort of get guidance and get an onboard,
a lot more sort of an friendly environment and try out a few things before they actually do
mask their first question. So they don't really know if the harsh experience. So it gives us a
inability to address the issue, perhaps in some cases, addressing the symptom,
in some cases, addressing, uh, you know, sort of a more of a short term fix. So that's,
that hopefully gives you a little more context and we'll try to do that out of it. And earlier,
you mentioned, uh, in the context of the team's product integration with Slack and the product
being able to suggest answers. Is that also, uh, kind of an ML powered bot?
And yes, in that also, so with teams as an example, you know, we, uh, capabilities very
powerful in a couple of dimensions. So one is, you know, when people search for a question,
they can do that on stackable for teams, they can be up and by the way, we have companies like
Microsoft and Bloomberg and extensify and you name it by a big, big enterprise and, and
high growth startups that are using our product. Microsoft has over 100,000 users on stackable
for teams. So it's a fantastic tool, uh, and capable of products for enterprises to, to use,
uh, to collaborate asynchronously. Now, as far, why it works so well is, you know, it is,
if somebody asks a question, how do I do this on AWS within a company or within Microsoft apps
are asking, how do I do this on Microsoft Azure? You know, the question is, even when they ask
that within MS teams, uh, which is integrated with stackable for teams, uh, it's going to prompt
the user with three other questions that sound similar. Hey, like your colleague asks this
question already, you know what I mean? And so don't ask another question to just add to the,
add to the noise. Go look at the answer that was documented six months ago by somebody else,
and you're a brand new employee to Microsoft will check this question out, you know,
or when the new employee comes in, they're getting a package of 50 questions and answers and a bunch
of long form articles as we call them long form content, uh, called articles that gives them
and how do you onboard into Microsoft Azure at Microsoft as an example, right? Or, or could you
use a tool and so on? So those prompts and, you know, uh, it's another example of how
ML is fueling question prompts. Say listen, you know, here's another question that may be similar
to what we're asking and so on. So we are, we are slowly incorporating those sort of features.
One of the point I mentioned to you is, um, you know, our search capability, there's a lot that we
could do that because again, we have access to just a ton of information. We launched something
called Unified Search, uh, this past year where, uh, somebody asked me a question again,
that we're using that Microsoft example. How do I do some Microsoft Azure? They could get five
answers from the public community that is relevant that we have about 250,000 questions on Microsoft
Azure and the public community on Stack Oldflow. And then it would also present maybe three answers
from just a private, just within Microsoft, something that's specific that is confidential to Microsoft,
that's also presented as part of that ancestor. So you're getting to this robust private and public
combination. So I can imagine there's a lot more to do there with, uh, with ML and AI. Got it, got it.
How folks in our audience, most want to know is what do you see as the single most impactful
potential use case for AI at Stack Overflow? Wow. Okay. I think this is, uh, this,
it's a powerful question. I think that for us, the amount of data that we collect across the
owners, the data we have access to and, uh, all we know about a trend before trend is actually
formalized, you know, and so we don't really fully sort of, um, we don't really sort of realize
that in the context of sharing that information with all the relevant people. So I think this,
for example, I mentioned previously, doing a once a year developer survey to then sort of figure
out that in what's spelled is the top language, uh, that made its way to the top of the list this
year is not like, you know, it's not a, yes, it's a discrete moment in time that we're calculating
that. But for people to know about all the ways in which technology is changing and technology
is changing very rapidly. The reason why we have so much innovation on new scripting languages and
and programming languages, languages that, you know, there are inefficiencies with each one,
you know, constantly optimizing for some set of variables. And they will have to always continue
to exist, right? So you add VMs in the early days, now you have serverless and you have even
beyond that, right? So the point is that it's a continuous evolution. And I think the ability to
empower developers and technologists and people that are in the detail on daily basis to say,
there is a metal weight to do this, you know, or, you know, what that answer may be outdated. And,
you know, we hear as a more relevant answer. All those things, I think, are capabilities that
are AI and ML tool set in the future could help power and give people insight a lot earlier.
You know, on the topic of trends in the survey, are there particularly interesting or surprising
trends that have popped up as you've done the survey over the past couple of years?
Yeah, I think, you know, some of the, some of the trends are interesting, especially as it relates
to sort of the future of work and how people sort of, you know, how, what people appreciate going
forward versus previously, I think, I think 70% of developers based on a survey are learning
in new technology at least once a year, which is, you know, fascinating to us, which is like,
wow, this is, you know, this is ultimately sort of a learning, engineers would love to learn,
we know that, but we didn't realize 70% of developers do that. It's like a very high number.
You know, 60% of these developers are learning to code from online resources, which is, you know,
kind of a, a hat tip to process in the tech portfolio and ultimately what our role in that.
And ultimately, I think people also really want to make sure that they,
you know, have the flexibility, I don't have exact stat, but, you know, in terms of like,
their ability to have a hybrid work environment, the ability to have flexibility in their work,
you know, there's this grand resignation that you're hearing about, you know, in the industry.
And a lot of that is being, perhaps is, you know, people are making choices based on, you know,
do they first want to, they're working for mission driven organizations, so they,
they respect and they care about the mission. And secondly, do they have control in this sort of
world that seems to reduce people's uncertainty? Do they have more control over their sort of,
you know, their, their professional lives? And I think that having the flexibility and hybrid
work, et cetera, is sort of another sort of very interesting spike that we've seen in, in our surveys.
Nice. We've recently seen some interesting evolution in the industry kind of around AI-based
code generation, like open AI and GitHub collaborated on a tool called co-pilot.
Yep. You know, there are, you know, what do you think about the, you know, the future of
code generation or those kinds of AI models and stack overflows potential role in that kind of thing?
Yeah, I think then, you know, there's a lot of potential with those, those elements, right?
So co-pilot's an interesting thing, you know, it obviously uses a lot of data in the public sphere
as it sort of, there's a sort of recommend piece of code. It doesn't come, but, you know,
it's early days is what I would sort of say, right? There's always a, you know, we've all read
the feedback on, you know, perhaps it's sort of it's not accurate enough for its propagating errors
and, you know, those are the sort of downsides. But I'm very sort of positive about the direction
in that people are constantly looking at me. There's no difference in what I mentioned previously.
There's always this thing of how do you improve efficiency? How do you remove context switching,
right? And for developers, it's important. And if you can sort of spoon feed as much of the
funding foundation as possible, that's pretty powerful. But also comes with downsides. You can't
just blindly sort of assume what you're, what's being generated is going to work because then you just,
you've got a bunch of code that you just don't understand and that may have unintended consequences.
So there's a lot more, I think, work to do around training those models, increasing the accuracy,
making sure the unintended consequences are less keeping things like diversity, you know, through
in designs that have been mined, you know, and all those sort of elements, it's a multi,
it's a very complex problem. And I think in general, I think it's a good move because you obviously
constantly want to automate and, you know, we're optimistic and we believe we can play a bigger role
with that as well because of the amount of data and the richness of the data that we have.
And that's very much our sacrifice of a team's product is meant to do that in many ways, to suggest
the right, right answers, the right time to people to get the unstuck, ultimately, right in any
share. Yeah, have me played a bit with co-pilot, at least in its current state, I'd almost rather have
some automatic integration between Stack Overflow and the IDE that just tells me all the times that
the mistake I'm about to make has been made and what the solution is. Yeah, indeed, you know,
that gives you more control and definitely we have we're in the process of thinking through
our roadmap for 2022 and IDs have sort of come up a few times, integrations with IDs. And so
I'll take that back to our product team. Yeah, nice. And so maybe to wrap things up,
tell us a little bit about the kind of, you know, future state of a Stack Overflow and MLAI
enabled Stack Overflow in the context of this process acquisition, like what's possible,
kind of given where we are today and what you're looking at with the business.
Yeah, so I think that, you know, ultimately, like I mentioned, we have Stack Overflow, the
public platform. This is massive platform that's access-bounded million people. We have Stack Overflow
Teams, that is the private version of that public platform that helps organizations like Microsoft,
LoomBud and so on, really have, you know, a synchronous collaboration, increased efficiency
into build faster. And then we have our advertising business, which is, you know, which is called
region relevance, which has things like Android branding and collectives on Stack Overflow and so on.
So ultimately with something like Teams, we want to, we are in the community building business,
that's what we do, right? So we are making sure that Teams is the de facto, asynchronous
collaboration technology for technologies and knowledge workers from all around the world.
We have a very U.S. centric customer base in Teams today. And with our partnership with
Process, we expect it to really expand internationally to replicate that. So you'll see us do that
on the boot of market side in the coming year and years. So that is that's one sort of big
element of it. Secondly, you know, we want to get even more deeply integrated into the
technology sort of workflow as an extension of the public Stack Overflow experience. So we know that
every developer goes to Stack Overflow, let's say for the most part. So the question is like,
how do we create connective tissue between that public platform experience and the private product
to make sure that that ecosystem of products is like a one, right? Because that is a, that is a
that's a poor product or a must-have product that nobody can live without. And so you will see us do a
lot more building that connective tissue between the public platform, products like collectives,
which sits sort of in between, as I mentioned, allowing companies to build their communities on
Stack Overflow and then Stack Overflow for teams and private organizations. And then ultimately,
it's all about, again, making sure that we're building very thriving communities. So, you know,
building knowledge and resources that are resilient and evergreen and capturing questions and
summing up answers in the flow of communication through these sort of other synchronous tools,
like Stack and Microsoft Teams, to prevent any sort of context switching and really enabling
distributed teams to share and recognize and really sort of enable this rapid learning for
people within organizations in an increasingly sort of distributed sort of world of working and
sort of remote sort of environment. And so really ultimately, we want to be able to create
this culture of learning so that teams can upscale and scale and really do that very quickly
for the future humanity. So that's the, that's why we're going.
Awesome. Well, Percent, thanks so much. It was wonderful chatting with you. Thank you, Sam.
