All right, everyone, I am here with Cariann Bergen.
Cariann is an assistant professor at Brown University.
Cariann, welcome to the Twimal AI podcast.
Hi, thanks for having me.
I am looking forward to diving into our conversation.
You have roles in both data science and earth sciences
at Brown, and we'll be talking about that and more.
But to get us started, I'd love to have you share a little bit
about your background and how you came to work
and the confidence of those two fields.
Yeah, so I actually am back at Brown.
I was an undergraduate here a few years ago,
and I studied applied math and physics.
And at the time, I was studying applied math
because I thought, I really liked math and, you know,
in high school and I had taken computer science
and I really liked these kind of topics.
And I thought, math is really useful.
So it'll be fine.
It's a great thing to study.
But I'd never heard the term data science.
Like, I didn't know that it existed.
I just was like, math is useful.
It's everywhere.
So I studied applied math.
And then I graduated and went to work
at MIT Lincoln Laboratory, which is a federally funded research
and development center outside of Boston.
And there I was doing, essentially I came in.
I had an applied math degree.
And they were like, have you ever heard
of any of these neural networks support vector machine
and I had, because I'd taken unapplied statistics course
that covered these things.
And so they gave me this sort of applied machine learning
project trying to look at data from different sensors
and try to determine if there had been a bio agent release
or this kind of thing using sensor data.
And the job title that I had was software engineer.
But I was like, this doesn't feel like software engineering.
I'm kind of prototyping analysis and algorithms in MATLAB.
And so then I decided to go back to school
after that.
I'd never considered doing a PhD.
But I wanted to do kind of an interdisciplinary
more application-focused or sort of engineering-oriented
applied math kind of program.
So I went to Stanford.
And then once I got to Stanford, I
started to hear about data science everywhere.
And I originally thought I was going to do more of like
the, I was in the program that's called computational
mathematical engineering.
So that's kind of traditionally has been more like scientific
computing and computational sciences.
But there was a big shift toward data science.
So I went to Stanford.
Everyone's talking about data science.
If you're doing applied and computational mathematics,
the natural place to apply that is in data science
and machine learning.
So I ended up kind of moving more in that direction
than I had anticipated.
Again, I'd never heard of big data data science
until I went over to Stanford.
And then it was sort of everywhere.
And while I was at Stanford, I got
interested in doing these more applied problems.
Because I do think it's a really interesting way
to find challenging data science problems
as to go talk to scientists or other people who have data
and don't know what to do with it.
They have a problem they want to solve,
but they don't quite know how to get the solution.
And so just by a sort of chance, I
mentioned that as an undergrad, I had taken
a handful of our science courses.
And I thought they were interesting,
but I didn't really see the connection
between our sciences and the kind of mathematics and computing.
But I mentioned this to Professor.
And she introduced me to a seismologist
who had a lot of data.
And so we started collaborating on this project
that ended up becoming my PhD thesis
about trying to detect really small earthquakes
in really long duration waveform recordings
from seismometers, which are the sensors
that measure vibrations of the Earth.
And so I'm trying to pick out really, really small earthquakes.
And so that kind of got me into this feel
of the intersection of data science and geophysics.
And then I sort of continued on in a postdoc position
and ended up applying to faculty positions
and ended up back at Brown, where
I was hired by the Data Science Initiative, which
is one of these kind of interdisciplinary homes
for data science at Brown, with a joint appointment
in Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences,
which is a different department than the one I was in here
as an undergrad, but it was kind of fun to come back.
My opinion is Brown undergraduates are the most fun
and greatest undergraduates in the world,
the best ones to work with.
So I was excited to come back and teach them
and work with them again.
And so I was excited to come back to Brown.
I also have a courtesy appointment in computer science.
So I hopefully will be able to start working
with some computer science students as well.
I just started this year.
So I'm still new to Brown.
But yeah, it's fun to be back.
Fantastic.
Do you anticipate continuing on?
Well, I guess you're partially appointed
in Earth and Environmental Sciences.
So you're going to continue on with research building
on your dissertation.
Is that the idea?
Yeah.
So there's definitely one aspect of the research
that I'm going to continue to do.
I have some collaborations that are hopefully,
it's a little tricky during the pandemic
to keep these collaborations with scientists going
and kick off new ones as a new assistant professor.
He started during transition institutions during this time.
But hopefully to continue collaborating
with people who are doing earthquake science,
I have a current project I'm working on,
where I'm trying to work on a similar problem,
which is also this kind of waveform classification
and classifying the data that are recorded by seismograms.
But trying to do so in a way that's a little more interpretable.
So I do have interest in those kind of projects.
And in general, sort of signal processing event detection
and sensor networks are problems that I've worked on.
Actually, that's what I was doing.
Also at Lincoln Laboratory was a problem
with detecting sort of rare events in a sensor network.
I'm doing kind of the same with earthquakes.
So that's an area of interest.
But also moving more towards looking
at other kinds of applications and thinking more about,
how do we do machine learning through in the right way
and the sciences and developing tools
that are specifically designed for scientists
as opposed to kind of taking techniques from industry
and adapting them, which is what I did during my PhD.
We were using these kind of audio processing techniques,
applying it to seismic data, and sometimes that works.
But sometimes scientists need tools
that are specifically designed
with their sort of domain expertise, knowledge
of this sort of underlying, you know,
domain knowledge, the physics, and all of that as well.
So there's a lot of I think needs that scientists have
that are not necessarily being addressed
by some of the research that's going on
that's more industry focused in many cases.
But digging into the work that you did on the dissertation,
you mentioned you were applying audio techniques
or techniques from audio processing,
were they machine learning techniques
or traditional audio processing techniques or a mixture?
Yeah, so it's kind of a mixture.
So we were doing trying to detect the signals
from these weak earthquakes in a sort of unsupervised way.
So in a lot of science applications,
I think the sciences in general
is common to have really big data sets,
but you don't always have like labels for them
or very good set of labels.
And especially if your goal is to find something new,
then, you know, the label data
you have may not be helpful for finding
and discovering new things in the data.
So we wanted to develop something
that we would be able to discover new earthquake signals
in these continuous data sets
without having to have a lot of labeled data.
And this continues to be a need in this field
because label data is something
that people often don't have.
And so we were using more of a data mining approach.
So we are trying to look for repeating patterns
in the data as a way of picking out earthquake signals
because earthquakes often repeat.
When I started the project,
I didn't realize the seismograms.
You see, if you've ever seen one,
they're like, look at these kind of wiggles.
And to me, I thought they just were really random.
I didn't know that there is a lot of information
that's sort of in there.
But if you have two earthquakes
that are roughly the same location
and they're recorded by the same instrument,
then the wiggles that are recorded for that,
they look almost identical.
And so you can use that as a way to pick out earthquakes.
If you know what one of the signals looks like,
you can essentially use that as a sort of template
and find other events that were roughly the same location.
And so that's called template matching
and that's a commonly used approach in that field.
So we were trying to do template matching
without template sort of template discovery
by looking for these kind of repeating signals.
And so we were using techniques that you would use
for like audio retrieval
because the waveform data we have in seismology,
the sort of best or most similar kind of data
that's out there that there's been a lot of tools for
is audio.
There's obviously some differences between the two types,
but sort of searching large audio data sets
for you know sort of repeating segments
is something that there were techniques.
And so we were using in particular localities
instead of passing was the technique
we were using to kind of cluster
and find do kind of a near neighbor search
to find similar waveforms.
And then another piece of it is,
then a piece that's different from audio
is then what do you do when you have multiple sensors
at different locations?
And so that was a big focus of my work.
And so with that's again under the hood,
there was some sort of machine learning going on
like some basic, you know, some clustering,
these kinds of things.
But yeah, it was kind of an interesting project
just because it was really combining a lot of different
tools and really, it was a very, very, you know,
multidisciplinary and really fun.
We had a team of people from,
I was sort of the data science person
and we had some seismologists involved.
We had some computer scientists involved as well.
So we had people from, you know,
three different academic units all involved in the project.
So that was good and fun.
Well, when you mentioned that the signal,
if you record two seismic events from the same location,
the signals will be identical as the implication
that if you're in a different location
that the signals won't be identical
and that kind of speaks to me to some of the challenges
of using machine learning, you know,
might be that you can train a model,
but it's very location specific
and doesn't necessarily generalize to other locations.
Is that one of the things you see?
Yeah, so for this particular project,
it is true that so the reason why you would see similar
signals that are coming from events
that have the sort of same or close nearby sources
and then recorded at the same location
is that essentially the source is the same in that case
because you have sort of slip along a fault
at roughly the same location.
Then you have the seismic waves
are traveling the same path
and then they're recorded at the same location.
So everything's kind of the same
all of these pieces that contribute
to what the waveform looks like,
but if you have a different location.
I thought you were referring to multiple earthquakes,
you know, separated by time.
Captured from the same location.
Oh, yeah, they are,
but if they might be having at the same location
along the fault.
So they would be separated by, you know, minutes,
years, you know, the amount of time
could be pretty much any amount of time.
We were processing data sets up to 10 years.
So up to 10 years of time,
we would look for those,
but they would have to be roughly
at the same location and recorded at the same instrument.
But in terms of generalization,
now they're actually in the last,
I would say about three years,
which is around the time I finished up my PhD.
There has been a shift
toward using supervised approaches for this.
And there are general characteristics of earthquakes.
So you have this sort of initial wave arrival,
which is called a P wave
and then you have another sort of major arrival
called an S wave.
And you have all these different,
they call them seismic phases.
And so you can see these,
they have some patterns in the data
that seismologists can learn to identify them
by looking at the waveform data.
They can look at some of these seismic recordings
and they can say, okay, that's a P wave,
that's an S wave and all that.
So you can also train a machine learning model to do this.
If you have a large labeled data set,
which that's something that,
as a student, I was frustrated by
because there weren't these large
labeled data sets in this field.
And I kept saying,
if we want to use supervised learning,
then we are going to have to put together
this kind of data set.
And so a few years ago,
there was sort of a push for that to happen.
And now there are some of these data sets.
And so there has been a movement towards supervised learning.
And it does work fairly well.
They do tend to generalize well
from different locations
because you do have these kind of general,
like P wave and S waves patterns
that you can train a seismologist to pick them out.
So training and machine learning algorithm
is, it's very feasible to do.
But this only works for the kind of earthquakes
that we have a lot of examples of
in the catalogs and more conventional earthquakes.
There's still a lot of demand for
these more unsupervised or kind of data limited methods
for other kinds of events.
So there's lots of different kinds of seismic events
that people are interested in.
There's things like tremor,
which is another kind of sort of seismic event.
People also study environmental events,
like those study ice quakes or landslides
or avalanches, these kind of things.
And there's also seismometer on Mars.
So if you're trying to, you know, this,
you can train a model to detect earthquakes on Earth.
But if you try to apply it to Mars, like, you know,
all bets are off, and that's a case
where you don't have a lot of examples.
You don't really know what you're gonna find.
So there are, you know, there's,
there has been this movement towards supervised learning,
but it's only for those cases
where you can put together a large label data set.
But it does, it does work well for those problems.
Do we call them earthquakes if they're on Mars?
You would call them probably a Mars quake, I guess.
I don't know, I haven't looked so much at the,
I've seen some of the data for it,
but when I look at it, it doesn't look like anything to me.
I've sort of learned, I've learned, you know,
I'm sort of a human, I've done my sort of human machine,
you know, learning and learned how to identify,
sort of P and S waves and pick out earthquakes.
But if I look at the Martian ones,
it doesn't look like anything to me,
which is why I don't think machine learning
would be able to pick them out either
if they were trained on Earth.
And so you mentioned that an as an element
of your project was trying to incorporate data
from multiple locations.
Yeah, so what I was trying to do is one of the challenges
with our approach of trying to look for repeating signals
is that other things can generate repeating signals.
Like if you have the same truck
that drives past the sensor every day,
then you may get a repeating signal from that.
And so there's kind of two places
where you can try to suppress those kinds of false detections.
And one of them is kind of on the front end,
you can try to choose features where you're not going to see,
you know, maybe that's not in the right frequency range
or something that don't look like earthquakes.
But you also can try to do it on kind of the output side
and say like which of these signals are consistent
with being an earthquake.
And one thing that you can try to do
is use machine learning to classify those.
But actually what works best is to look at the physics
and say are we seeing something that's consistent
with a single event where you have a waveform propagating
in space and it's being recorded on different sensors
in a way that's consistent with a shared event.
And so that's a problem that generally when you do detection
in this field, you first pick out what you think are earthquakes
and then you look at different sensors
and say are we seeing the same event.
But the waveforms they arrive at different stations
at different times because they travel,
they don't travel instantly.
So they hit the stations at different times.
You actually try to make sense of this
and like are these arrivals we're observing
at different locations consistent with a shared event.
And that problem is something they call phase association
in this field.
And so for our particular detector,
one of the parts of the project that I worked on
there's been a lot of time on was trying to come up
with a method to do that for multiple stations
for our particular approach.
And it turns out that because we're doing our detections
we're identifying similar events,
there's an invariant quantity we can use
to that we see across the network
that we can identify and pull them out.
So the problem just actually sort of reduces
the problem of finding these kind of patterns
in a giant sparse matrix, which was the output
of our detector.
And so kind of doing this like clustering,
finding these kind of specific cluster shapes
and patterns in this matrix.
And that technique or you mentioned location invariant
hashing, is that what you call that?
So sorry, locality sensitive hashing is a technique
from like theoretical computer science
for fast near neighbor search.
And so that's what we use to pick out the waveforms
that are similar to each other.
And then once we do that for each of the instruments
in our network, then we have to ask the question of like
which of these pairs of events that we are seeing
do we believe are real and that we're seeing
at multiple stations?
Because we see it in multiple stations
and we think it's probably not just like a truck driving
by one station or some other sort of nuisance signal
we think it's really an earthquake
if it's consistent with being observed over a larger
spatial area.
And so does the technique result at,
is it a technique that an analyst or someone
could apply or would apply to the data
to help them make sense of it?
Or does it feed into some machinery
that you, like a classifier that ultimately says,
this was an earthquake, this wasn't an earthquake?
Yeah, so our approach is essentially
trying to just detect the signals.
So usually if the processing steps,
what a seismologist would ultimately want
would be to get a catalog of events.
And so what they would usually do
is take the events that are seen on multiple stations,
they would try to then use, look at,
identify the specific arrival times
that each station of the P and S wave
so these different phases.
And then use that to try to locate where the event is
and if you can sort of locate the event,
that's when it's usually kind of put in a catalog
and you could also characterize it,
like how big was the event?
What was the magnitude, maybe information
about the source and so on?
So that's kind of what the next step
would be to locate and characterize the event
and then put it in a catalog.
And these catalogs are used by,
this is sort of the starting point of a lot of research
in geophysics and earthquake sciences.
They want to have good catalogs of earthquakes
so that they can then look for patterns
or draw conclusions based on when and where
they're seeing earthquakes and these kinds of things.
You know, the people who are sort of trying to study
like the physics of earthquakes and these kinds of things,
they need to know where and when earthquakes happen.
So on my end, I'm trying to help create
that sort of data product for the scientists.
And how would you characterize kind of where we are broadly
with the application of machine learning to the field?
Well, this particular problem of identifying earthquakes
and seismological events and more broadly to earth sciences.
Yeah, so this particular problem
of doing this sort of waveform classification,
this kind of seismic data analysis,
it's really on kind of the front end
of getting these catalogs.
This is one of the problems that's,
it's been studied for a long time.
And it's also one of the areas I think within geophysics
where there's been a lot more focus
on applying machine learning
because it's a problem that seems really well suited
to machine learning.
Like you have all of this data,
you have some catalogs for some kinds of events
and you want to be able to do better
to do a better job of picking out the earthquakes,
identifying when the arrivals are,
getting the smallest events that we can and so on.
And so that area I think there's been,
there has been a lot of work on it.
And I think it's actually starting to get incorporated
into some of the like real time processing.
So the tools that I was developing was more for researchers.
So it was more geared towards like batch processing
of large quantities of archive data.
So we would apply it to like the last 10 years of data
recorded in a particular region or set of stations.
But there's also people who are like the US Geological Survey
that are doing this kind of real time catalog generation.
And so we were trying to develop,
you know, more detailed catalogs for researchers.
But there also was an interest in like,
well, if we could just incorporate it into these kind of systems
that are already generating the catalogs then
and have better catalogs in the first place,
I think that's an area where there is a lot of interest
in including machine learning.
One of the challenges there is just, you know,
the USGS is public facing, right?
So I think there are a little more,
you know, risk averse in terms of like what,
what how many, you know, false positives can you put
or how accurate you need it to be
as opposed to the catalogs researchers are working with.
You know, they want to find everything they possibly can
and then worry about later kind of some of these other issues
about like the data quality or these kind of things.
So.
And so from your introduction,
it sounds like your experience applying machine learning
to this particular field of seismology kind of in form.
Some, you know, some thoughts on kind of machine learning
in general as applied to the scientists.
You know, how do you think we're doing there?
Yeah.
So actually when I finished up this project,
one of the things that I did was,
as I was writing up my thesis,
I like had all these kind of thoughts about like,
well, how could machine learning,
how could scientists better incorporate machine learning?
And I sort of wrote this up and we ended up publishing
like a review paper that include these kind of suggestions
for the scientific community.
But at the same time, I was kind of thinking about
as a data scientist, like what do I see is sort of missing here.
And I think right now there's a lot of focus like among scientists.
There's a lot of interest in using machine learning.
But for scientists, machine learning is just a set of tools
that they don't necessarily,
I mean, some of the, you know, younger scientists
are really keen to learn more computer science
to learn the data science techniques.
But a lot of people are just sort of like,
you know, give me this, you know, neural network,
I'll just apply it to my data, get some results,
and then, you know, move on,
they're really motivated by the scientific questions.
And not necessarily thinking about like, you know,
how do I modify this technique to get it to work better
or is this technique, you know, well suited to the problem
or how could I incorporate domain knowledge better
into this model?
It's, you know, it's just, it's not the focus of their work.
They're just, you know, they want a set of tools
that they can kind of grab and go.
And on the, I think, computer science side,
a lot of the research there is driven by,
you know, the needs of industry
and certain kinds of data like text or images
and these kinds of data sets,
which often look different than the data sets
that scientists have.
And often there's sort of different assumptions
about, you know, the needs and just the interest
of scientists, I think, is often a little bit different.
You know, things like knowing how confident
they could be in their predictions,
being able to interpret models and understand,
you know, what's going on under the hood
is something that's really important for scientists
being able to use whatever machine learning models they have
to then discover something new about science
is really the, the ultimate sort of focus.
And so I think there's not a lot as many people
who are in this kind of, in between space,
there's kind of the scientists who are using machine learning
tools but not focused too much on developing new tools
and then you have computer scientists who, you know,
they might be interested in applying their tools
to scientific data but not necessarily really digging
into like learning more about the domain in order
to make really like tailored tools for the scientists.
And so I sort of think of it as a little bit of an analogy
with like computational biology.
You have this field where you have people
who are essentially a sort of trained as computer scientists
but they really learn a lot of the biology
and then they're able to develop tools specifically
for working with biological data
for solving computational problems in biology.
And I think for our scientists and for some
of other, the other physical sciences,
we don't really have that notion of this
as kind of a distinct discipline
that we're training students in and have
as its kind of own research field.
And so that's what I'm kind of hoping to work in that space
and to try to build up and train students to work in that area.
But it's kind of a new and growing area
and you know, fields like computational biology took time
to sort of grow and develop.
And I think, in our sciences, I think we're a little behind
but there are some areas I see a lot of work
in like climate science where I think they're really far ahead.
There's a lot of people who've been doing climate modeling.
I think they're really computer savvy over there
and like a lot of them are keen to adopt machine learning.
Geophysics is also a very sort of,
I was a geophysics is full of data scientists, you know,
from before we were calling them data scientists.
Like they've always had a lot of data,
a lot of very high demand for computational solutions
for analyzing big data sets.
But the focus hasn't always been on, you know,
looking to sort of modern tools from computer science.
A lot of us sort of brute forcing things
like just throwing a lot of compute at the problem
and not thinking about how to, you know,
carefully design the algorithms
or really digging into the different statistical
or sort of computational methods as much.
Of course, there's always, there's always people
in every field who have these interests.
So I'm not like the first person who's ever,
ever been in this intersection.
But I think it's an area, there's a lot of growing interests.
I hear from a lot of, you know, young scientists,
early career folks who were interested
in going into this area.
And so it's an area that I'm hoping to develop more
in my research, rather than kind of focusing on
like this one particular problem of picking out earthquake signals,
which is an interesting problem.
But I think there's a lot more that we could do
in this intersection, especially developing new tools.
Like I think that's kind of the most, the most fun.
And do you have a sense for the direction that that goes
or specific tools that you think are needed?
And maybe how domain specific are the new tools?
Do you think there's an opportunity to create, you know,
ML tools, you know, broadly for scientists?
Or does that run the risk of kind of the same problem
that you're trying to solve
and what the tools aren't specific enough?
Yeah, I mean, I think that's a good question, right?
Because there is this sort of tradeoff, like the more kind
of general purpose tool you make, like the more different problems
you can apply it to and get like decent solutions.
But then for any given problem,
it's probably not going to be the best possible solution.
So I think, but there are kinds of data,
like I've been working with these, you know, seismic signals.
And there aren't as many tools out there,
for instance, for doing time series and signals.
Like a lot of it is coming from like the audio processing
community and some things that you, you know,
use for other kinds of sequential data,
like text you could apply to this, you know,
these kinds of data.
But maybe it's not it's natural to do it.
And so you can think about, you know, you could,
there is a need, you know, for just general tools
for signals and time series, more work in that area.
But then, you know, so that's kind of a more general area
that people could contribute in.
But at the same time, then it's not specific
to these kinds of specific, like, you know, earthquakes
and the seismic networks and all that.
So there is, I guess there's kind of a trade off that,
you can risk getting too far in either direction, I guess,
making something too general.
But I'm hoping to kind of be in that space of thinking,
like when I'm thinking about stuff,
even if I'm applying it to seismic data,
I try to think, like, could this be applied more generally
to other kinds of signals or time series?
And that's often when I read papers, I think, like, you know,
is this a method, like, could we adapt this to work for,
you know, if it's designed for images
or for other kinds of sequential data?
Like, would this work for signal processing?
What it worked for time series analysis?
Because those are kinds of data you see a lot,
or sensor networks of other sorts, right?
There's a lot of different time series
where you have multiple sort of sources
where you're recording them, multiple sensor locations.
And so, you know, a lot of times the relationship,
this sort of spatial relationship
between those may be different in different applications.
But I think there's still, you know,
there's still potentially insight
from one problem that could be applied to the other.
So, I don't really have a good answer to that problem.
Like, it is, is a spectrum, it just depends,
like, you could get really specific
to a particular problem or to general
so that you're not solving anyone's problem.
As a new faculty, you know, with a new lab,
you know, charting a direction through questions like that,
how do you approach them, where do you start?
So, I've been trying to, I have some sort of areas
that I'm interested in where I think they're, you know,
are contributions that we could make for kind of,
I try to think like could this,
is this seem like something that could help
or scientists in general, but not always for a specific task?
Although I often apply it to seismic data
and then kind of show it to my seismology colleagues
because it's a fun to talk to them about these things.
But for instance, like right now,
there's some of the areas that I think are really useful
for scientists.
One is like just getting back to this problem of like,
well, how do you do learning
when you don't have very many labeled examples?
And for the method I developed as a PhD student,
we sort of assumed you had no knowledge
and you are no examples.
And then you had to sort of bake some domain knowledge
into your solution, but there's also, you know,
you could also do like semi-supervised techniques.
There's a lot of techniques using, you know, some labels
and also using domain knowledge.
So I think there's a lot of opportunities there
in different scientific areas.
I'm also interested in one area that I'm interested in,
recently is looking at sort of interpretability
and kind of explainable AI methods
because I think now that a lot of geoscientists
are throwing deep learning models at their solutions,
you hear a lot of people talking about like,
well, how do we, this is a black box.
They don't like that it's a black box.
Because scientists, they don't like black boxes.
And the goal, if your goal is ultimately
to discover something new, then just having
some kind of a black box solution
where you, you know, feed in an input
and output something isn't very satisfying to scientists.
So having tools that they can use to better interpret
the models, one, to just, you know,
one case maybe to understand the representations,
the model is learning, because that itself may be the thing
that we don't know.
Like, we don't know how to model something.
We can train a neural network to model it.
And now we want to understand like,
what did it actually learn?
And the other case, and this is more
for the kind of routine seismic processing example
is you may want to be able to, you know, interpret the model
to make sure that it's doing something that makes sense, right?
You want to be able to trust that your model
is making predictions that you're willing to trust
and that you think are correct, especially when you start
some of these seismic applications, you know,
earthquakes are natural hazards.
And so there's a lot of ways in which, you know,
these, the decisions that your machine learning algorithm
is making starts to get close to kind of making decisions
that relate to, you know, public messaging
or putting out warnings about things to the public.
And so then you really want to have confidence
in what your solutions are doing.
And also for those applications, you do have a lot of,
you do have some cases in which analysts
are looking at the data and actually reviewing
all of the earthquakes and events that are coming in.
And so you also want tools that are going to help them
understand what's going on, you know,
where they should focus their attention.
So that they're, you know, when they have to like review
all of this, it's a lot of data to manually process.
We have tools to automate it,
but then you need something kind of bridge that
and help point them to like, what are the strange cases?
What are the cases where the model isn't really sure
or, you know, how can we sort of combine
both the analysts, expertise and the modeling?
So there's a lot of different places
where I think there's work to be done for this particular problem,
but also just as kind of a general set of tools
being able to interpret machine learning models
is going to be useful for scientists.
That's an area I'm kind of been focusing on recently
and excited about.
Awesome, awesome.
When you're out talking to scientists
that are, you know, familiar with machine learning
in the sense that they know it's something
that could potentially help them,
but not, you know, necessarily trained in machine learning.
What are the questions that you get most frequently?
Yeah, so I think there's, I think scientists,
I think it's different like five years ago than it is now.
I think now a lot more scientists are generally familiar
with machine learning, whereas when I first started working
on this stuff, or even I would say as recently
as like four or five years ago,
there were a lot of people who are just like,
what is machine learning?
I don't quite know what it even is.
I think now the questions actually get the most
when I talk to people, I mean, sometimes they're like,
you know, does this make sense for my data set
and they kind of, you know, tell you about their problem?
And usually they don't have enough labeled examples.
They're like, is 20 enough in those kind of things?
But the other thing, the big question is often,
how do we teach this to our students?
Like what skills do our students need?
You know, what should, what classes should we be requiring?
What statistical skills or computing skills
should we be teaching them so that they can like learn
to do this, or even, you know,
if they decide to leave academia
and go into a job and industry,
like how do we train them so that they learn
the data science skills because it's not something
that's incorporated into sort of,
at least at the undergraduate level
in most universities into like a geology major
or like environmental science type major,
these kinds of programs,
the students aren't necessarily learning these skills,
but I think there's growing recognition
that it's, you know, computing and data science
are important in these fields
and that students need to be learning it.
So that's actually, I think the most common question
recently that I got is just, you know,
what should we be teaching our students?
How do we train them to do this?
How do you tend to answer that?
Is it just yes, you train them in the stuff or?
Well, I tend to, well, I mean, I tend to say, you know,
I think students should, you know,
I think we should, you know, all undergraduate,
my opinion of a verb to me,
I would have all undergraduates take a statistics class
in a linear algebra course
and then learn like Python or something.
But I think it's still something
where for a lot of science majors, it, you know,
those kinds of courses, like they still have to take calculus
and maybe there's a statistics requirement
but they often don't have to take any computing
necessarily a lot of the students are learning these skills
but they're learning them informally,
like they'll do a research project with a faculty
and they'll kind of pick up how to do some like MAT lab coding
or are whatever language is being used in the lab.
But they're not, they're kind of picking it up as they go
and I think some of the students are missing this
and especially also the formal math training,
like they see it in their physics courses,
they'll see a little bit of linear algebra
and they'll see a little bit of statistics
that come up in their other science courses
but they're not getting the sort of level of training
that I think they need to really dig
into some of these machine learning techniques,
like they're learning how to enough to, you know,
be able to, they can probably run, you know,
a package like Scikit learn on their data
and I teach the students in my class how to use it
but if they really want to start then, you know,
developing new tools that are, you know,
tailored to their specific application
that are incorporating domain knowledge into it
a little bit more rather than using a tool out of the box,
then they really need that mathematical background
and that's something that I think some of the students
who are sort of keen on that are getting,
like they're learning it on their own,
they're signing up for those courses
but it's not, it's not something that's kind of standard
in these fields yet.
Well, Karen, thank you so much for joining us
to share a little bit about what you're working on,
best of luck with your new lab
and looking forward to seeing lots of great stuff
come from your and your team.
All right, yeah, thank you so much.
It was nice to have you.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
