All right, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Twinmal AI podcast. I'm your host,
Sam Charrington, and today I'm joined by Ori Kellegg, an assistant professor at CU Boulder.
Before we get into today's conversation, be sure to take a moment to head over to Apple Podcast
or your listening platform of choice. And if you enjoy the show, please leave us a five-star rating
and review. Ori, welcome to the podcast. Thanks so much for having me, Sam. I'm excited to be here.
Excited for this conversation. We're going to be talking about your research into collective
communication in insect swarms. And I've already learned that there are multiple species of
firefly. It never occurred to me that that was the case. We'll dig into that and a lot more.
But before we do, I'd love to have you share a little bit about your background and
how you came to work with machine learning. Sure. So my background is pretty interdisciplinary,
and even within the realm of interdisciplinary backgrounds, I think it's a little bit all over
the place, so bear with me. I started with an undergrad in computer science and physics,
then moved to a master's in physics, where I studied soft materials using computational
techniques. I then moved to, so that was in Israel where I grew up and then I moved to Switzerland
for PhD in material science, where I started applying some of these computational techniques
to biological materials. Usually small things like proteins and how they fold or how they interact
with each other to be the larger complexes. And then for the postdoc, I made a switch,
so first of all, I moved to the US. I spent time in a few departments first in chemistry,
and then in applied math, so you get my drift on all over the place.
And I made a big conceptual switch to study materials that are on the larger scale, on the level
of a super organism, instead of small proteins, because I was really interested in animal behavior,
and it was a really nice segue into that. And after that, I landed in Colorado,
where I am today. I'm officially in the computer science department, and I have a joint
appointment with the Bio Frontiers Institute, which is a very interdisciplinary institute,
bringing people from many departments to study problems in biology. And I'm also associated with
the Santa Fe Institute for complex systems. So it's a nice spot to be for people with background,
like mine, where we apply lots of different disciplines to understand problems in biology.
And naturally, since I'm in the computer science department, and we use a lot of computer science,
we also use a lot of machine learning techniques for analyzing our experimental data,
classifying behavior, and also in the simulation and agent-based models that we're using as coupled
technique to understand animal behavior. Okay, okay. You said something interesting in there.
You kind of characterize your work now, or your work with kind of systems of animals as large-scale
materials. Can you elaborate on that a little bit? Yeah, so I'm specifically referring to
honeybee swarms in one particular phenomenon that they or behavior they exhibit is that many,
many bees, tens of thousands of bees, connect their bodies by holding hands or legs or whatever they
can. And they create these really, really large materials that are completely made of honeybees,
and they're extremely adaptable. They can suspend themselves from tree branches or rooftops,
you know, lots of different surfaces. And that was then, I guess, an analogy for
or a microscopic manifestation of biological material. Yeah, interesting. You have been fascinated
by this whole idea of swarming behaviors for a while. I was initially introduced to it in the
context of trying to emulate swarming behaviors that occur naturally in distributed computing systems.
And this idea that you can take kind of the, you know, a set of simple primitives or rules
and have each system or each participant in a larger system kind of implement these simple
primitives without any knowledge of what anyone else is doing. And then you have these kind of
emergent behaviors across the broader system. It's super fascinating stuff. How did you,
like, what was what was kind of your entryway into thinking about these broader problems,
these kind of systems? So, first of all, yes, I can very much relate to that connection to
distributed algorithms and distributed hardware and swarm robotics, although we don't work on
it specifically in my lab, I think that we have so much to learn from nature, from swarms that
had a privilege of eons of evolution to perfect some of these collective communications. I find
it fascinating. And I guess I kind of expanded, you know, I started with the honey bee swarms materials
that I just mentioned. But there are just so many interesting things that the bees do, which we
observed while performing experiments on on the honey bee swarms. For example, they use chemical
communication where one bee produces a chemical signal, but because it's so it's very volatile,
it can decay very rapidly in time and space. So, other bees actually serve as signal amplifiers.
They stop at a certain distance and they generate a signal and then another bee does this and
another bee so they can transmit the signal over larger distances. I almost sounds like spiking
neurons. I think there's a deep relation to neurons and their synchronization or activities.
Absolutely. Yeah, so when I opened up my own lab at CU Boulder, I sort of, you know, took
some time to think what would be cool new ideas and new systems to study. And yeah, the honey bees
was a kind of natural because I was already working on it, but the fireflies is another
beautiful example of collective synchronization in nature where individuals flash on off.
And it's probably as close as it gets to computer language in the natural animal communication
in nature because it's such a simple signal. It's very similar to Morse code. So I saw some
had intuition and gut feeling that these would be cool systems to focus on.
Awesome. Awesome. And let's dig into that a bit more deeply. You presented on that at this past
CVPR, some of your research in that area and the ways that you use machine learning in your research.
Let's maybe start by having you expand a bit on the phenomenon that you were observing and
trying to characterize and then we'll get into the way you apply ML to help with that. Okay, sounds
good. So I'll start with maybe a bit of a broader background about fireflies since not everybody's
familiar with this. So fireflies are are beetles and they have an organ in the abdomen that is called
the lantern. So it can produce light. It's called light. It's based on chemical reaction.
And they use that lantern in order to communicate with each other. Usually it's in the context
of mating swarms. So that happens once a year where lots of fireflies congregate at a certain
area and then males would advertise themselves by producing a flash pattern. So a certain sequence
of flashes on and off. And then if a female perceives that signal and likes it and there's lots
of different ways to understand what what a female likes. She would respond also in a species
specific pattern. So these patterns the important issue about them is that they're species specific.
Each species and there's thousands of species of fireflies has its own unique flash pattern.
Can you imagine that if there is let's say one firefly in in in an area if you're just observing
one firefly then it's pretty easy to connect the dots. So you know that there's one firefly here
every time you see a flash that came from that one individual. So you can easily connect the dots
and kind of construct the flash pattern that is individual performed. But as soon as you have
more fireflies and you cannot see them when they're not flashing this becomes a really hard problem.
How do you connect the dots? How do you know which flash came from which individual?
In a sense it's similar to the cocktail party problem that it's a classical problem studied
in neuroscience where the idea is that you're present in a loud wrong with many people but humans
are really good at focusing on the person that they're speaking to and seems like fireflies are
somehow able to do it as well but we don't really understand how they do that. So we do know that
there's two main groups of fireflies species. There's fireflies who synchronize their flashes
and then naturally that increases the signal to noise ratio of the collective swarm and there's
fireflies who don't synchronize their flashes. So my lab studies both groups for the synchronous
fireflies the species that we started working with a couple of years ago. We try to understand
how they synchronize their flashes. So it's actually a non-phenomena. People have been
knew that fireflies can synchronize their flashes for a long time but it was kind of dismissed at
first as maybe people were just imagining it. Maybe the observers blinking somehow makes it
you know when they perceive it makes it look like the fireflies are flashing in unison. Maybe the
boat so it was in particular the first synchronous species were observed in Thailand on mangrove
trees on the banks of a river so people were on boats or some another potential hypothesis was
that the movement of the boat is maybe changing something about the perceived signal. But no it's
after several decades of rigorous studies turns out the fireflies do synchronize their flash
patterns and there has been lots of mathematical models to explain how this synchronization might occur
but very little quantitative experimental data to actually validate these models and that's the gap
that me and my lab members were after. Got it, got it. Before we dig into that kind of returning to
the thousand or thousands of species of fireflies it is the species distribution highly geographical
or is it the case when I'm walking down the street in July and see fireflies I'm observing
many different species at work. The information about the geographical distribution is a little
bit sparse at the moment. Fireflies have been very understudied relative to other insects but it
is known that some of the species of fireflies do coexist. So it's not that uncommon to walk
down the street or maybe in forest and actually observe swarms that contain two species of
fireflies. And then the problem of course becomes even more interesting because we can have synchronous
species and non-synchronous species overlapping and I'm really fascinated by how the females are
able to interpret those signals and detect their own species. Kind of getting into the experimental
part of your work kind of how do you set up those experiments and I'm imagining that's going to
lead us to the role of computer vision. Yes exactly exactly so I imagine that until a few years ago
there wasn't sufficient quantitative data to validate the models and we wanted to acquire that kind
of data. And nowadays actually with very simple cameras, goal pros, sometimes even with our smartphones
we can capture the very dim light of the fireflies. It wasn't the case always so I think that's one of
the reasons it hasn't been it has been a bit understudied. And so what we do is we go to the field
with cameras so it's kind of an unusual experience for computer science professors,
PhD students and postdocs we all go together to the field which is really exciting so we get to
see the fireflies and we record their flashes. Now in some of the mathematical models that I mentioned
before the concept is that there's some kind of coupling between each agent whether that's a
firefly, a person, a heart cell or actually even electrons in a in a superconductor.
There are somehow coupled to their neighbors that coupling can decay as a function of distance
between the two agents which makes sense if you think about fireflies maybe as they get further
and further away from each other the you know the light is dimmer and dimmer and they cannot see
each other very well. So space is really important we really want to capture where and when the fireflies
flash and to capture the spatial aspect we need stereo vision. So we have two cameras and that
kind of works like our own depth estimation as humans we have two eyes so we can capture
you know the same objects from two different views and from that triangulate how far away that
object is. So we do the same thing with fireflies and stereo vision has been very well used so
there's actually code to to interpret these kind of data but we extended that method a little bit
to eliminate camera calibration. Camera calibration is one of the most annoying things in stereo
recording you have to go especially when in the field you have to calibrate the cameras both
temporarily so make sure that the same frame from each camera view is synchronized as well as
spatially so you need to know the exact relative positions of the camera and what we what we did
is we could only do this because the firefly flashes are so bright in comparison to the background
we actually use the firefly flashes to calibrate our cameras so we apply some basic computer vision
we threshold the image to find where the flashes are in both camera views and then to we solve the
alignment and calibration as an optimization problem so we find out for example how many flashes
were recorded from each camera view and you plot that as a function of time and then we align
this information from both cameras until they match so it's so it's incense an optimization
problem where the output is what was the temporal difference between the two cameras.
And do the cameras always have the exact same field of view or do you also have to account for
kind of overlapping but not perfectly aligned field of view. Exactly they're not perfectly aligned
so but we use the fraction of the field of view where they do align so that's a good point and
we have to account for that yes. And so in terms of the optimization problem are you using
any particular algorithms to do that or? Yeah so we're using some well-known
I guess optimization code some of the codes we usually depending on how many parameters we need
to optimize for the temporal aspect it's we just want parameter which is the time difference
between the camera for the spatial arrangement there's actually more parameters because each
camera has a three-dimensional position in space X, Y, Z and actually it's represented by a three-by-three
matrix so we have enough parameter to start worrying about using more efficient optimization code so
we we use a lot in the lab a method called CMAES covariance matrix adaptation evolutionary
strategy that's a little extension of that and it's actually really cool because it's based on
biological evolution and it's calculating the covariance matrix that each parameter set is
giving you and making sure that covariance matrix is large so when the covariance matrix is large
it means that you're more exposed to different landscapes on the function that you're trying to
optimize and less likely to get stuck in local equilibrium and more likely to get towards the
global equilibrium that's just one example and there's a few other methods that we use and
we haven't invented them they're really just out of the box methods that people use for solving
optimization problems. Got it and where does the evolutionary aspect of that come in to play?
There is in each generation of the optimization code or optimization function there is basically
a for loop and there's a certain number of points on the landscape. Each point corresponds to one
parameter set and these points we kind of keep keep count whether they helped increase the area
of the covariance matrix or decrease it. If they helped increase it then they're more likely to
survive the next generation and that's where the evolutionary aspect comes to play. There is a
fitness function to the points on the energy landscape in a sense. Interesting, interesting and
on the temporal side is it you're doing some kind of like sliding window kind of thing or you're
trying to see where and so once you have that aspect of machine learning is just helping you kind
of set up your experiment and know where your cameras are and get them all aligned. Do you use
machine learning further along in the research or the experimentation process? So that's the main
aspect for the data acquisition and I will just I just want to point out that we don't do it only
for ourselves. We are actually hoping to really extend the data acquisition and there's an
ongoing increasing attention to five light behavior. So we hope to be able to actually crowdsource
data acquisition and for that eliminating the calibration process is really crucial.
Oh wow. So allowing someone to just download this onto a couple of phones and
put them on a tripod or something and start to collect data. That's what we hope to do and
actually this year we have an amazing group of scientists and just far fly enthusiasts,
enthusiastic people who are volunteering to help us collect data and we're testing that method.
And is the these alignment steps that we're talking about? Is that a post processing step or
are you trying to do some kind of real-time alignment? So it's actually a post processing step
although in post processing it can also be aligned along different windows of the recording
which means that anybody who has a pair of cameras can potentially just record and then send us
the data and we can do everything in post processing. So there is no you don't need anything else
besides cameras and and tripods. Talk a little bit about what you do with the the aligned data
once you have it. Okay so the once we have the aligned data there's two main ways that we use it.
One is to understand far fly behavior, how they're synchronizing their flashes for example
and I can talk more about that and I'll just mention the other the other way that we use it is for
population monitoring. So as I mentioned each species of far fly has different flash patterns
so just by using this recording and tracking the far flies in three dimensions we can reconstruct
what was the flash pattern and from there we can identify the species of the far fly using again
machine learning techniques. And that's important for far fly conservation which is has been
generally neglected until a few years ago and and turns out that far flies do suffer from
population decline due to climate change and due to light pollution. So there's an increasing
amount of programs that are trying to objectively characterize the far fly populations.
Right now the the way that people measure far fly populations or quantify them is kind of by
eye so they go out to the field and try to count how many flashes they they see in which species
but that's really hard to do once you have lots of individuals in the same spot so we hope that our
more passive way to record far flies is is going to help there.
Exactly it's hard for them to make when the lights are on in a sense they can find each other
they directly changes the contrast between the far fly flashes and the background and they
definitely flash less when when it's bright outside. So in your description of the ways that the
things that you're doing with the data you mentioned identifying the synchronization patterns
identifying the individual far flies I guess in a frame or in a video and kind of tracking their
movement through the frame it sounds like there are a bunch of potential ML applications and all
that to use machine learning for those areas as well or more traditional methods. At the moment we're
using more traditional methods like thresholding and filling out you know little holes in the in the
flash of the pattern these kind of things but it doesn't always work of course because if you're
doing classical motion detection but there's little things that move in the background like maybe
there's a tree and there's a little bit of wind so the leaves are moving that can really mess up
with these classical methods so our next step is actually to use more advanced machine learning
techniques to track the far flies which has been done a lot with insect swarms we did it with other
insect swarms like carnivies it seems like it's a possible possible approach and we haven't done
it yet but we hope to do it as the next step and I'm imagining that kind of collecting and
labeling curating a data set is one of the big challenges to overcome in order to make it all work
that's always a challenge so yeah preparing the training set basically is always the maybe the most
time-consuming thing so you mentioned honeybees again talk a little bit more about what you're
looking at when you're studying honeybees okay so honeybees totally different animal let me
just give you a very brief background so honeybees living very very large are usually congested
colonies there is one queen and most of the the rest of the bees are female workers there's maybe 10%
drone males and the numbers we're talking about is tens of thousands or you know even more sometimes
for a particular colony so it's really really large and the the communication there is extremely
distributed is you know there's a queen but the queen doesn't really tell them what to do they make
a lot of decision based on local information that they sense around them either from neighboring
bees or from the environment and they make decisions based on that and somehow there's a lot of
interesting emergence behavior emerging behavior in how they for example ventilator hive how they
maintain mechanical stability as a swarm these are the swarm the materials made of bees that I
mentioned before and they do a lot of interesting things as a collective as a coherent aggregated
group but one thing we were interested in was how do they become a coherent group in the first
place we know that bees can sense the pheromones of the queen pheromones are chemical signals that
they're very volatile they they cave very rapidly in time and space so bees that are close to the
queen maybe have no problem to sense these signals but bees that are further away are going to
struggle so that that was one of the problems the first problems we started working on when I
opened my lab how do bees that are further away our pheromones modulated at a frequency
kind of fast enough for communication I kind of think of them as a much longer kind of wavelength
signal so it really depends on the the half-life time of that chemical signal I think you write that
usually it's more it's less instantaneous than a far-fly flash for example and it's sometimes
it's passive so it's just you know the queen for example has lots of pheromones glands on her body
she doesn't really do anything active in order to transmit these pheromones it just kind of diffuse
passively from from her body so I think these are the two main differences
okay so how do bees that are further away from the queen are able to find her of course the queen
is really important because there's only one queen she's the only fertile bee actually that can
lay eggs and help the colony maintain its colony size so it turns out that bees can serve as
little signal amplifiers and they do something that in the beekeeping jargon is called
sending so they stick their abdomen upwards and they open up a pheromone gland by applying this
body posture and they fender wings so the airflow draws air across this pheromone gland and they
depending on how their body is oriented in which direction that also determines the direction
in which the signal is going to propagate so it basically propagates from their head backwards
and we found out doing some preliminary experiments that bees use that sent in behavior to
inform bees that are further away from the queen so there are like little Wi-Fi extenders
exactly exactly it's like a little telecommunication network where the bees a bee that senses the
pheromones of the queen would stop at a particular distance start sending further away from the queen
towards the less informed bees and then another bee would come from behind to do the same thing
and the same thing and the same thing so they create this really interesting dynamical network of
communication that is extremely robust and adjustable also to environmental perturbation so
I think it's a fascinating behavior that the bees kind of managed to do and we wanted to
understand that a little bit better and that's where machine learning came into into the play so
we wanted a way to classify the behavior of the bees in a high throughput way I mean we can see
by eye that they're sending but as you just mentioned creating these training sets and
marking the bees when they're sending that can take a very very long time just to give you
the sense for one experiment we spend months basically cataloging and classifying the behavior
of the bees that are sending so to overcome that we use machine learning where the training set was
a collection of either snapshots or movies of bees that are performing sending or not performing
sending and the output is yes or not or no are these bees sending producing the signal or not
and also in which direction they're sending and these are the two important aspects of that
behavior that we can then use to better understand why the bees are sending how they make decisions
about sending in which direction they usually send and when we when we ran the experiments and
the analysis with the machine learning classification of the behavior we noticed that indeed the bees
the rest of the worker bees create a global map to where the queen is so they all sent in a
direction that if you follow all the sending events you would end up where the queen is and we
think that what happens is that they do so so that the further away bees the less informed ones
can follow these signals to find the queen gives another meaning to gradient descent
there's endless funds you can use with the bees actually interesting and so how do you use
the kind of the understanding that you gained around this network and the directionality of
the sending behavior yeah so finding out whether that information is indeed leading to the queen
all the sending direction that was the first step that was kind of a proof of concept that we found
an interesting communication signal that really has a meaning and in that case it's the global
position of where the queen is now we can actually dive deeper we can ask things like
how do bees make decisions how does it be decide oh now I'm going to stop and I'm going to
stand backwards or now I'm just going to follow the signal of the other bees and from that we noticed
a few interesting hints from the experiments we noticed that bees that are sending
position themselves at a very particular distance from other bees that are sending and we can
only do that because we have this you know big data set with the machine learning high throughput
analysis so since we're dealing with a chemical signal that diffuses or has some kind of advection
a particular distance from a source would imply a particular concentration particular
concentration of that signal from the source if you just think about the classical physical
equations of diffusion for example so that's really interesting maybe it means that the bees get
triggered by a threshold of concentration of the pheromone so if the threshold is above a certain
threshold sorry if the concentration is above a certain threshold then they start triggering
their behavior their sending behavior another thing we notice is that this there's a little bit of
estochasticity to that process so there is the bees have certain probability once they sense that
chemical chemical concentration above a threshold then you know maybe 50% of the time they stop
sending and 50% of the time they ignore it and then what we did is take these hints from the
experiments and we actually plug them into an agent-based model that mimics what the bees do
and we actually again used optimization strategies or machine learning to explore the parameters
base in the agent-based model to find optimalities of the process interesting interesting going
back to the kind of characterizing the pheromone is there is there just is there one pheromone or
is pheromone kind of a family of chemicals in there are I'm trying to get a sense for the granularity
of pheromones as a communication vehicle yeah it's it's actually a fascinating fascinating field
I'll you know to lower your expectation I would say we don't really know we know that there's
definitely more than one pheromone and the granularity of different pheromones pheromone is kind of
like a cocktail of different chemicals and so it can you can have different concentrations of
these chemicals different bees within a colony can have different pheromones sometimes it depends
on their age bees from different colonies would have a different combination of chemicals
that lead to their pheromones this is how they distinguish between nest mates and non-nest
mates and it's a fascinating of action in animal communication is a fascinating topic that
I think it's really not clear what is the right level of granularity in bees but also in other
species so in your research do you ultimately think of it as kind of a binary signal you know
with maybe some with regard to some threshold the bees either you know propagating pheromones
or not exactly you're not trying to get to a low you're not trying to get to a lower low
no we for simplicity we're starting as a yeah as you said a zero or one are they are they
producing chemical signals or not in the future if it ever becomes possible to actually measure
the chemical concentration of these pheromones I think it would be really interesting to try to
further classify and dig deeper whether different bees have slightly different
combination of chemicals and how they affect the yeah the behavior of the rest of this one
earlier you mentioned that you were talking about the difficulty of data collection
in this case as well and you mentioned that you overcame you it sounded like you were saying
you overcame that by doing some some data collection and some classification I wanted to make
sure that I understood specifically what you're doing were you kind of like bootstrapping
a broader you know something that was able to operate on large scale by doing creating a small
scale classifier like some kind of hierarchical thing oh no no not that advanced what we did
is we basically prepared a training set so we had a set of movies or snapshots of bees that are
sending or not sending that those were hand labeled and also the body orientation was hand labeled
and then we train either a CNN or an RNN on on this data in order to get the output which is
yes no is this be sending or not or and if yes in which direction it is propagating the information
to got it got it and then you you're applying that kind of frame by frame on this these images
that you capture and are you creating like some kind of you know at each for each be like a point
vector of like if they're sending in what direction that kind of thing exactly and then what we do
is integrate we take all these vectors and we construct a higher dimensional surface from the
vectors are kind of gradients we use them we treat them as gradients we reconstruct the surface
so then high values on that surface should correspond to where the target is in this case it's where
the queen is in terms of kind of next steps for both the the fireflies and the honey bees and any
other species that you're investigating are there things that you're seeing kind of coming down
the pike in the you know or kind of already established in the machine learning world that you
you know think are promising for your research and are looking forward to applying?
Yeah so one thing we already kind of talked about briefly was applying more sophisticated
machine learning computer vision tools for a firefly behavior I think that that's absolutely
necessary and I think it would help us a lot to get rid of environmental noise and capture more
flashes we might also be able to capture something interesting about the movement of the firefly so
I only mentioned temporal information but the fireflies are actually moving and when they're moving
they're almost like drawing you know a line particular particular shape with with their flashes
so we're really wondering if there's any further information encoded in in the movement as well
and we're hoping to extend our both tracking and also species classification based on that
in the movement as well and that wouldn't be unheard of don't bees have like communicate via
movement patterns or something like that I think I remember reading them yeah yeah very true
so the bees use the waggle dance to inform other bees about a target that is usually further away
so they use the sensing for things that are within a few meters beyond that they're actually
using the waggle dance that is a slightly you know it has slightly different accuracy but it's
fine or for long distances and the waggle dance basically tells the bees that can perceive that
signal where is a good source of food or in a site how far it is and in which direction they should fly
yeah so you know there's there's actually lots of different communication signals in bees
it can be characterized with machine learning computer vision tools like the waggle dance
maybe there's auditory signals that they use and actually people keep finding more and more
new communication signals that the bees use usually they're based on just a person kind of
staring at what the bees are doing and then notice some patterns but actually using machine learning
tools can be a really powerful ways to more subjectively find some interesting new communication
methods or signals that the bees use and that to me suggests kind of unsupervised type of an approach
or clustering approaches that's something that you've experimented with yeah I'm definitely
familiar with the methods we haven't tried it on the bee communication or experiments that we
work with in my lab but I think it could be really promising future direction yeah all right well
all right thanks so much for taking the time to share what you've been working on and the way you're
applying machine learning to study communication and insect super fascinating stuff thank you so much
it was fun chatting with you and thanks again for having me
