All right, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Twomble AI podcast. I'm your host,
Sam Charrington. And today I'm joined by Wendy Foster, director of engineering and data
science at Shopify. Before we get into today's conversation, be sure to take a moment to
head over to Apple Podcasts or your listening platform of choice. And if you enjoy the show,
please leave us a five star rating and review. Wendy, welcome to the podcast.
Thanks, Sam. I'm so excited to be here. Long time fan, first time participant.
Awesome. I'm so excited to hear that. And looking forward to our conversation,
we'll be talking a bit about your group at Shopify and what you do. And digging into your
perspective on data centric AI and how you make that real at Shopify. I'd love to have you get
us started by sharing a bit about your background and how you came to work in the field.
Yeah, for sure. It's definitely been a long and twisty journey. So I'll try and be fairly concise
about it. But I don't think I'm actually like unique, especially in the data science or machine
learning field, which is highly cross-disciplinary by nature. But I started out training in the
humanities of a doctorate in literature and cultural studies. But while doing that work,
I was oriented always toward technology studies in particular, which meant I was always hacking
and kind of stretching outside of the traditional boundaries of the humanities. And when I finished
that doctorate, I think like many folks, I wanted to work in the real world. I did want to stay
in academia. And I wanted to work in technology. So I was really fortunate to find, which was at
the time, a very new integrated program. So was at Simon Frazier University, was a master's in
interactive arts and technology, which combined humanities and sociology with computer science and
art. And it was a big incubator actually for a lot of incredible design thinking talent that
was aiming at the game industry, which was a big passion point for me. So those are kind of the
two big steps that I took that I would say like brought me to where I am today. Like I was fascinated
by how data could be visualized and turned into experiences for end users. That was probably the
first step I took into data science. And I was fortunate enough after I graduated to move to Toronto
from Vancouver at the time and get a job at Copo Books. And I think I was there first the time
they were calling it insights and visualization analytics. Awesome. And so what do you do at Shopify?
Yeah, I do a lot of interesting things. I'll say I talk a little bit about my group, we're called
Core Optimize, we're part of our core platform group. And there's two big investment areas within
Core Optimize. We have a product development capacity. And if I reduce it to its most foundational
like product instantiations, it's the reporting and analytic surfaces that we provide to merchants
to help them understand their business better and make better decisions for their business.
We have embedded within that capacity and algorithms group. So they look for opportunities for what
we call horizontal leverage. And what horizontal leverage like means for us is that any algorithm
development we do doesn't just serve our primary group unoptimized but can be utilized and extended
by other groups across Shopify for their product. So a key product for us in that space or key
algorithmic product for us in that space is product categorization. So product categorization
is useful for an incredibly wide array of domains. It can help reduce toil and merchant workflow,
but it's also incredibly useful as a facet for search and discovery. It helps other teams
make better decisions about merchant bucketing just as some very very small examples there.
And we wanted to talk a little bit about data centric AI and categorization is an area that
that comes in the play for you. Maybe take a step back. This idea of data centric AI, how
familiar are you with that? And how is that concept landed for you in thinking about the work
that you do at Shopify? Yeah, absolutely. Actually, I've been thinking about it for probably like
several years and I don't know if the framing for that existed many many years ago, but
I think when I think about differentials between data centric and model centric like AI,
I think back to several companies ago when we're building recommendation projects very small
like startup and with a very enthusiastic group of engineers and machine learning experts where we
were very very excited about all the parameter tuning we could do and very very excited about 0.002
percent improvement in our model performance. And we were fortunate enough that like startup to
have a very rich like wide and deep data set. So our data quality just from a from a coverage
perspective was exceptional. And so like the data was always a rich source for us and we really
put like less attention on it than we should have and spent a lot of time playing with micro
optimizations. I don't know that if I framed it in terms of those like kind of concepts that we're
talking about now at that point, but as like I moved through my career and went into different
organizations and I'll say organizations of different scale in different access to data like
those concepts started becoming more separated for me. And also in organizations of different
scale, they'll say Shopify in particular, we orient all of our decision making whether it's
technical or product around the merchant problem. So if I talk about merchant centricity is being
highly linked to a direction for teams to be data centric versus model centric, they're like
they're incapable of being extricated from each other in my mind. If I care about what's doing
best for the merchant and improving merchant success, I want us to care way more in our approach
about data quality and data coverage than I want people to care about like the I think the micro
details of parameter tuning. And I'm going to be incredibly poor and say I know someone's
said it better. And I'm pretty sure it was like Andrew in, but it's like I think when he talks
about it, he talks about it as like the difference between being able to make an impact in like
not making an impact at all, but satisfying our engineering needs to engineer things.
When you talk about data quality in the context of Shopify, how would you kind of assess data quality
at Shopify and what are some of the things that you think about to address, maintain, and improve data
quality there? Yeah, I mean, in some senses, it's linked to data governance for us. So a big part
of data quality for me is trustworthiness across our different data sets. Are we
cleaning and transforming when the transformation is necessary in like appropriate ways?
And when we transform it in one place is it consistent with how we've transformed it in another?
Is it reliable? Do we have good SLAs on like those data sets? And especially this is
clearly particularly important for our data pipelines and our model pipelines, like ensuring
we have proper service level understandings of that, both for our customers, but as well as for
internal teams who are building off of it. Are we like, I mean, we clearly part of like data
governance is ensuring that our merchants data is well protected. So having like structures that
keep us attentive to that. And for like the modeling side specifically, a piece that like I care
about is coverage and freshness. So with something to use the example of the product categorization
piece, our merchants are incredibly unique. So in Shopify, we understand them as like entrepreneurs
because their behavior is very robust to change in dynamic, right? So it means that like,
is they see the world changing around them? They're constantly updating their products or
their inventories that allow them to be able to like sell better and have higher, clearly higher
success for themselves. But for us, what this means is that ensuring that we're always bringing
fresh data into our modeling like approaches is not just important, but it's critical. Like it's
more critical than worrying about the model architecture itself. It's not to say we don't do model
improvements because also like things like you have to update your model. You can rely on like the
architectures that you kind of get for free with the incredible work that people have already done.
But for product categorization, like an evolution where we did care about updating the model was
bringing image data into our consideration versus just relying on textual data. So like we do
care about ensuring our model is like robust, but like attentiveness to like how the data is changing
underneath us. Sometimes on a daily basis is the most interesting and exciting thing for us,
I think. So that's the data centricity part. Like we need to care about it because it's an
integral part of how merchants behave on our platform. Interesting. It sounds like in a
center saying that the kind of the time scale of innovation around the data versus the model is
very different with the data. It's something you're thinking about constantly. Whereas with the
model, you know, there are kind of bigger boulders that you might take on like integrating the image
information, but changes to the model that come from changes to the data that those that changes
are fewer and further between. Yeah, you nailed it. Absolutely. It's the dynamism of the data that
I think is most important to us. And as I said, like produces better model results. The more
attentive to it, we are the more we foreground coverage versus keeping tweaking accuracy of
existing things we're already pretty good at. And because like helped us be more successful
with this particular investment anyway. Elaborate on that a bit. What does foreground and coverage
mean to you? Yeah. So if I think about like merchant products because we have a high degree of
diversity in the types of merchants who are using like the platform, but also in the types of
products they sell. And not just between merchants, but the the rapidity of which merchants
change in pivot their own merchandising base as well. So it's just a highly dynamic like product
environment has to be like foregrounded so that we can understand if like what we're even inferring
from them is going to be like useful for it. So the expansion of coverage piece to me is like you
can get really good at it like a category of it like we're inferring product type from our product
data, which was like the first step we took with this product categorization model and get really
good at it because to a large extent like merchandising and inventory around clothing is relatively
like stable or we can we can make like the gap jumps like much easier there. But our merchants who
made cell clothing today might pivot and sell power tools tomorrow or like our long film merchants
right. So it requires us to like not just be good at one very large category of product type,
but to be very very good at starting to like build out understanding of some of like those dynamic
changes that are happening with transformations in industry for merchants. So we want to be
equally good at inferring product type for clothing as we want to be for like home goods as we
want to be for bicycles and power tools. Yeah, it's it's a it's a pretty rich tail of product types
for sure. Yeah, I'm thinking as an example of this thinking back to my conversation the last
conversation I had with Salma's former head of data at Shopify and we spoke quite a bit about the
impact of COVID on the company and I'm imagining as you're describing you know these merchants that
are selling clothes one day on all of a sudden you know you have masks pop up on the platform and
you know no one was selling masks before. Is that the kind of thing that you're referring to?
Yeah, I think it was probably like more acute or you saw those changes happen more frequently
during the most impactful early stages of of COVID but I would also say that like that dynamism
and like adjusting your business to meet market needs even if it's not as rapid a transformation.
We see as typical behavior for entrepreneurs like figuring out like their business models
especially in very very early stage anyway. So it's not just something you need to look at when we're
going through a pandemic it's just constant. Yeah, it's always yeah for sure.
And is the impact on categorization when you when you have wholly new products that are
introduced to the platform or is it different products offered by different vendors or what are
the conditions that that most impact the categorization effort and impact coverage?
Yeah, it's probably like a bit of both but I would say the the higher interest at least
for me right now is on merchants updating their products. I mean like one of the ways we've
productized this at Shopify is so merchants have what's called an administrative space when they
log into the Shopify platform and in that administrative place they have multiple operational
pages where they can do things like update their products and like shift inventory between
stores if they have multiple stores but for for product type or we're really focused is on
their product page and that's where they do their their product updates at new products change
existing products and where we surface our inference there is in a category for them which is
called product type so merchants have a bit of a choice here they can choose to set their own
product type where they can use our inference so in some ways it's like a nice virtuous circle
because if they don't like our inference they can use a custom type and then we can learn from
what they didn't like about our label but it's it's actually like a key function for them to get
that right because the idea of a product type is connected to a product category taxonomy
that isn't just useful for us in other parts of Shopify to help merchants merchandise better or
market their service is better or for merchants to be able to do that themselves using themselves
are third party apps but they typically are because they're entrepreneurs sell across multiple
channels so that product type like the taxonomic product reference is actually a thing now ideas
of taxonomies are like not interesting to like merchants in general this wanted to be right and
exportable to like Facebook marketplaces or like Google marketplaces right wherever else they like
sell their products and so like when I think of like us being able to like get this thing like
right and have the highest coverage for them I think about how they can actually use it to like
amplify their success across all of the channels they care about and if they're updating products
like very very quickly we have to like have a real-time inference and we have to make sure that
that inference is correct enough so that it doesn't become a frustrating aspect of a workflow
that changes often for them if there if there are a merchant who is involved in dynamic product
updates and quite frankly most of them are because if you're like a one or two person like organization
you're going to be constantly in those pages updating how you describe like your your products like
how you even like even images around them right because you're always trying to like tweak and
optimize that experience to find your audience in your fit so like they're highly experimental they
change things all the time thinking about that taxonomy how much of that or what's the relationship
between human curators taxonomists and machine machine learning in creating that taxonomy
yeah so for the initial stages of our product categorization we kind of did a couple of things
we leveraged like the Google product taxonomy to have a reference point for what that what that
tree structure should look like for merchants and we also employed subject matter experts
to help us like label those initial efforts both within house and as like a third party service
so once you reach a certain critical mass of like I mean we focused on um a clothing or a peril
um to start with to get right really well because you don't need um a lot of uh like high domain
expertise to to label pants effectively or a pair of socks so we got a lot of leverage from that
and it's also one of our biggest categories um merchant categories that Shopify so
it was a great like scaffolded place for us to start so once we got enough um good accurate
like labels to be able to have confidence in our inferences on the product type we were able to
build this experience um to surface the inference um into that operational page that merchants use
to manage their products and once we had that space in then we could start expanding our
understanding right because of the the fields that like surround that operation so our inference
if they want to accept it or reject it the custom types that they would add product titles product
descriptions are also in that operational page as well as tags so additional metadata are all um
merchant generated um so we've been able to like kind of bootstrap the model with like subject matter
expertise labeling a really well-known domain and then start trying to stretch it into unfamiliar
domains what's an example of domain in this case is it clothing to power tools or is it more
um you know within clothing one to the next yeah yeah I guess like actually all of it if I'm
being honest so it's like like clothing will have like your clearly your top level um uh
I guess like product types that are like most recognizable to us so like pants shirts um socks um
but like so you want like the the ability to be able to navigate down and number of like leaves
in a sock category for sure and it gets harder clearly as you get more granular because then it
becomes for for merchants and I think for buyers as well um uh more that maybe that becomes more
the domain knowledge how you define a very particular pair of pants like as chinos versus like
um blue jeans it starts becoming um uh just more refined but like I think really like the the
parent part of like that taxonomy node is the most important one to get right um so a pair
of clothing would be like the large categories but yeah to your point also extending it to like
other um sellable domains and I mean like those could be power tools it could be home decor
and living when you think of the broad like areas we would want to like um search for useful things
under but it can also be incredibly niche like there's going to be um massive amounts of like
edge cases where there's one product that someone's selling and it's a very particular type of like
let's say like iron on badge or something right yeah so it's a really complicated like area like
well-known domains are clearly easier to like access and learn than um your edge cases
and when did you first introduce images to the categorization?
oh it would have been last year like the the work on this is probably
only about a year and a half old now so it started out um modeling just using the textual
descriptions um attached to um products so the title description um product description
I think was also vendor and some of the metadata we also collect from it so like tags that they
would that merchants would add um to those product like uploads um and then it was like later on
in that year maybe maybe it was like a handful of months later where the model was extended
to incorporate images. the images were already in place part of this data set so you didn't have
to collect any additional information um how did you vectorize the images and did you
did you already have kind of an embedding space for product images or there had been experiments
done on done on it before so if I'm recalling correctly I actually think it was done during a
hack days um someone who I actually like I think was actually one person who ended up bringing
um over to the the team had done a hack days on um creating vector space for like the images so
the images product images are stored separately from the textual
descriptions for um uh the product type because they're like media assets are
a different like data store right so um merging like the pipelines was like non-trivial like um
um absolutely but absolutely necessary improvement to the model for us to I think be able to
aren't I mean my feeling is is that it was necessary in order for us to be able to start extending
into um subsequent domains and also build I think like real future thinking around
how we want to extend the model and our understanding of products in the future because
you look at like um how merchants as I said they're highly experimental and one of the things
it's like really important to them or I think images like comes into play arrest understanding
the images piece better um we're not doing this today but I'm kind of want the team to be thinking
about its day is like what happens when that converts to 3D right so I think it's like a table
stakes like activity now for when you go browsing you want um not necessarily the whole augmented
reality experience that's still available in very limited spaces but you want to be able to like
touch that image on your screen rotate it see its dimensions um and I think like for me the
the the image that's typically uploaded with a product is just a stepping stone for us to be
able to do um inference from um 3D models that merchants might want to um might want to engage to
we supported in like parts of the Shopify platform so it's a it's a necessary addition meaning
it currently merchants can upload 3D uh or multiple perspective images yeah there's aspects
through like their experience where they can like uh be able to like create 3D experiences for
buyers to be able to like do the image like manipulation um which is uh I think like I consider
it table stakes in terms of like by your experience now um not all merchants do that um but I think
it's like a growing expectation that there's that affordances like I mean to to an extent it's like
for a merchant to be able to provide like that image they have to have probably a certain amount
of like resources but those are getting more and more accessible um and I do think it's a space
we need to be thinking about in terms of building into um anything around product understanding
we do going forward curious about maybe other other challenges involved in uh in this particular
aspect of the projects so there's there's challenges in I don't know I want to frame it um I
mean there's technical challenges that coming work that come with like working and productionizing
with like large scale models so this particular like work really like I think um it was a primary
use case I'll say this way a primary use case for the evolution of our internal machine learning
platform so it was definitely pushing on technical boundaries um from a product um perspective um
we had to open ourselves up to like new spaces where this would be leverageable and like as I said
we orient like all of our decisions and what we decide to put our time against
unlike the highest merchant problem so this requires like the team maybe this is true of a lot of
like teams that um are building um algorithms they want to have like impact on the world outside
of like um their lab or like their team space but um it can't be a built it and they will come
kind of like venture right it's like the decision to work on product categorization and the team
had to do a lot of like outreach to teams across Shopify to be able to identify um the very best
opportunities um for like product fit right we can build our own products around it and
they said that creates a bit of a virtuous circle for us because we get better and enriched data
from um having um especially like that surface to our admin but we also want that like that
inference to be important for the company outside of our team so creating those relationships
and intersecting road maps is incredibly challenging and I actually think it's like probably one of
the biggest like challenges for um uh industry like level machine learning it's like it's probably
very very rare that one team can support like both building like the algorithm and the constellation
of products around it without making those relationships with other teams so your company also has
to be at scale it's like what we actually saw is that like working on like the algorithm and trying
to like build against it almost in parallel was like an impossibility right so yeah a building ahead
you have to have like strategic foresight to understand whether the right things to like build um
and then like making those like connections to product spaces that would benefit from it
becomes so much easier the hardest part about it is like really just getting teams to understand
the runway right so if you're doing like especially if you're like building in um a new space
you have like an MVP model um but you may need like like the decisions you make around how to
improve and even if it's just from a data coverage like perspective have to be with an i about
where that like um output of like that model is going to find a home is it for an internal
application then you probably like build your roadmap instead of like optimization priorities
around a completely different space then if you know merchant facing teams are going to leverage it
right you mentioned that it you found it really difficult to both build the model and build the
products around the model and i'm curious that that's a little bit counterintuitive um in the sense of
um you know if you've assuming you've got the the products uh domain expertise on the same team
um you know minimizing communication barriers just having everything in one place you think you
can move quicker but it sounds like there were some inherent challenges uh with that and i'm
curious about those yeah it's mostly a timing thing right and this is true of like um where you
want um uh that model like output to be useful for teams outside of yourself where you have even
less control about the staging of the product building against the algorithm development right so
when the model development like cycle and this is actually true of like any machine learning work
or data science work probably generally um the cycle of how you build that is very very different
from the software development cycle or the product development cycle more generally so um the
model has to be like built with some and we have to have some degree of confidence in it um before
like product opportunities can be software developed against it right so i think like the it's
not that like the challenges is like can we think of products to build around like the output of
a product categorization model the challenges how do you time that for internal team like if we
own all of the teams um product teams and the other teams that are building against it like the
staging is probably easier right um well it was easier for us but um we don't want to just be the
only team like leveraging this output so if we want another team across Shopify let's say our
search and discovery team to be able to use the output of a product categorization model
for a search facet we have to understand where on their roadmap that work might be located
if at all and if it's not be able to influence them to put it on their roadmap and then ensure
the way we're having to like um optimize if that's required um to be a you to make the output as
useful as possible for that other team like this artwork gonna be able to time out in a line with
how they've scheduled their work like it's complicated enough to do all of those like
roadmap alignments within one team clearly far more possible um much much more difficult to do it
with um external teams even within your own organization especially when you're hoping as we are
that this horizontal like asset can like help not just one team or two teams but a dozen teams right
so it's it's mostly just about managing timelines and getting like um other teams who don't support
this kind of work like the algorithm development work on their own teams explicitly understand like
the actual like length of time it takes um it takes to build these kind of products because that's
also an unknown too uh Shopify recently published a blog post about Merlin uh a new ML platform
at the company can you talk a little bit about the relationship between your team and
that platform and and even the categorization product and that platform um how do they fit
it together yeah um they fit together very closely actually so um the machine learning platform
is a relatively like new investment for Shopify as well like i'm probably going to be a mistake
in here but i think it's less than like two years old so the teams that are working in Shopify
on building um machine learning applications were the initial use cases for Merlin so the the team
that um uh i support who is building these horizontal like algorithms were one of like the first
use cases for Merlin but again like i say this is from like a product against a like data platform
is a product and so building and evolving something as complicated as a machine learning platform
in parallel with a team who's building um large-scale like multi-model models is um a challenge
so uh we feed in like requirements and we we fall along the road map and as we're able to take
advantage of more and more of the capabilities that the machine learning platform makes available
we migrate to them right so i think we started out um uh with the algorithms team um building
stand-alone like pipelines that um we're built in a way that when Merlin was able to support those
like on-platform like it was a fairly simple like migration effort um and same with taking
advantage of like the feature store that's being built out too it's like we're moving into like
near real-time um inference production and that's on their road maps so when they're able to support
that we'll be able to to merge there but um it's an exceptional team doing incredibly hard work
with an enormous amount of stakeholders across the organization so um i'm super happy with like
their progress and their level of like partnership with us like um we bait they basically are
filters for like um the pain the team is experiencing and um uh that gets like road mapped into
feature sets that are prioritized by them we've talked quite a bit about the categorization
use case um what are some other use cases that your team has been working on so i think like
for us the product space is not completely exhaustible if i'm talking to just about like the
algorithms work um but that doesn't mean the domain space of like merchant value is exhausted
that we can do in much smaller efforts so i think when we think about the large um large scale like
data work to me it's like a lot of its exploratory array like what large data sets do we have
that we think can provide merchant value um i think we still have a lot of like um mining that
we need to do on the product data set um specifically um but smaller areas that i think are useful
for merchants that can help them understand their business better is to really help them like
benchmark against themselves like be able to have like actually sensitive instead of out of the
box forecast for their businesses um it sounds like simple work but like the the models for like
supply and demand on each individual merchant um use case can look incredibly like different
right um uh some merchants even have i think one merchant like described it to me is um they have
like a model where they loan things out and then get them back and so how something like for forecasting
them if you're doing like inventory forecasting for them would look very different than inventory
forecasting for a merchant that sells something and once you sell it it's gone they're like
well we get stuff in from distributor a and then we lend it out um to a whole bunch of customers
and then we wait to get that back and then we're also getting like new products from like different
domains into the like how do i understand my business better i'm like that is a really hard
challenge probably not super unique especially like merchants are very creative about how they
manage their businesses now but it's enough of an edge case that it wouldn't fit into a generalizable
like forecast model we might be want to be able to provide to merchants um as a tool um to use in
their admin in our analytics home as an example so i think that that one's really hard
i think imagine that Shopify supported that at all the the lending use case you know let alone
forecasting it but even the inventory management parts of it and some of the more basic
mechanics of that that business yeah the the inventory like management support i am
pretty sure doesn't like uh doesn't like account like fully for that kind of like model so
it positive it's not part of like our tooling but um merchants like create are incredibly creative so
they find ways to like like use the platform for work for their immediate needs and then
creative ways often like sometimes they contract out like new services or find third party
apps that can support them um to be able to extend parts of their business so they're being
creative about how they support that too and for like one person like merchant businesses um maybe
they can like uh maybe they can kick love that uh to a large extent for themselves too but yeah
for for them it's like like really understanding how to like build that kind of business like
effectively is um not just a tooling challenge from any e-commerce solution they might use Shopify
in this case but also from an understanding perspective so the analytics products we provide
need to like i don't know if we'd be able to like handle the specificities of that use case but
i know how flexible we can be on like building that kind of like forecasting model that allows
merchants to have some autonomy over controlling aspects of how you define how that model should work
um i think it's probably very similar with pricing to like the thing they're also interested in
is like tools that help them experiment with pricing more effectively returning back to this idea
of data-centric AI versus model-centric and and the way that you've incorporated that into the
categorization use case you talked about incorporating in the user-provided labels
into the into the loop how do you operationalize that yeah so we have that product like pretty
well-instrumented um really like you can you can always like we always want to improve on that
because we learn more but we know if like if we provide an inference when you think of the field
it's like a light suggestion in it so when they have the product type in their admin it's like a
great out so they can say hey we're recommending this product type for you to use and if they click
in the text field then it populates that text field and then they can attach it to like their
inventory but they can also choose to ignore that field and there's an opportunity for them to enter
a custom type and also what they'll do regardless of whether they select a product type or not is
usually include um tags um descriptive tags for their product which is um like helps to make
them more discoverable it's a really rich source of um metadata for them to like leverage so
we know if they accept our suggestion if they click on that field and then apply it um to their
product so that's all part of like our product um dataset model awesome well Wendy thanks so
much for taking the time to chat and share a bit about what you and your team are up to very cool
stuff thank you Sam it's been a pleasure
