All right, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Twomol AI podcast. I'm your host, Sam
Sherrington. Today, I'm joined by Catherine Nakalembe. Catherine is associate research professor
at the University of Maryland and Africa program director under NASA Harvest. Before we get into
today's conversation, be sure to take a moment to head over to Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your listening platform of choice. And if you enjoy the show, leave us a five-star rating
in review. Catherine, welcome to the podcast. Thank you. I'm glad to be here.
I'm super excited to speak with you and learn more about what you're up to. You recently presented
on your work at the machine learning and the physical sciences workshop at this recent Nureps conference.
And your presentation was on supporting food security in Africa using machine learning and
earth observations. And we're going to dig deep into that topic. But before we do, I'd love to
have you share a little bit about your background and how you came to work in machine learning.
My background is in agriculture and my sensing research. So, you know, before machine learning
was such a big component of the work that we do, I focused on agriculture land use and drop
monitoring using existing satellite data sets. And, you know, throughout my PhD, my focus was in
in Africa. So, I've worked in Tanzania and you've gone very in Kenya and in Mali among other
countries. And, you know, outside of just understanding how agriculture and food security systems
work, I wanted to really figure out a way of utilizing earth observations in the process. And so,
I learned a lot of things including, you know, many complexities around, you know, accessibility
and utilization, as well as some of the limitations in terms of the data sets or the tools that
were available specifically. When you start looking in, you know, small older agriculture, which
is a dominant type of agriculture in South China and Africa. And so, in that process, you know,
it became pretty obvious that in order to improve the monitoring and utility of these data sets,
we have to improve the methods. And in the last couple of years, you know, there's been a huge
boost in expansion in terms of integration of machine learning methods to take advantage of
the existing data sets. And so, we're sort of in this era where we are able to process a lot more
data and use much smarter or faster tools to do that. And, this is, of course, complemented by
the fact that there's an explosion in terms of data sets, which means, you know, you need to be
able to process a lot more, a lot more data sets in that sense. This means that we're able to
look at places that were not looked at the same way. So, we have much higher frequency in terms of
observations, which in addition to higher resolution data. And so, being able to utilize those data sets
and get insights in a, you know, quicker way requires that we use machine learning. Otherwise,
you know, to be able to download and analyze data that way we did last couple of years,
it would not be possible, would still be, you know, snail speed. So, it's a pretty exciting,
kind of prerequisite to work in this space right now, to be able to apply newer tools
to, you know, develop the best possible. Sounds like it's a transition that's happening
pretty quickly in the space, as opposed to, you know, something gradual over the past 10 years.
So, you know, prior to, I'd say from my own personal work that I kind of worked on,
primarily we use decision trees, random forests for a lot of the analysis that we did.
And in addition to the fact that remote sensing data sets add big data by default. So,
looking at thousands and thousands of pixels over really, really large areas,
it meant that very few groups could work on these types of data sets. So, to analyze data for
a small region, it could be just a county in the past, you know, you need to be able one to
download it. You need to have an HPC or, you know, a decent server in order to be able to analyze it.
And so, when I did my PhD at Maryland, I was in one of those departments where this was possible,
you know, so it was like I was on the leading edge. But in the last couple of years, you know,
with cloud computing becoming, you know, more accessible, many, many, many, many more people
are able to do this. And so, what that means is, if you think about expanding access and utility
means many more eyes, many more questions of being asked, being asked very different way.
And so, what that means is that there's a lot more innovation, there's a lot more creativity,
there's a span in research questions that would not be possible at all in the past. And so,
that's why it's, you know, it's incredibly, it's incredibly changing. So, you find that,
you know, looking at flooding might not be important to somebody who lives, I'm trying to think
about a place where it's not experience any flooding. But if a person, let's say, who lives in,
you know, a small city that is constantly flooded, that might be a critical question that they want
to answer, right? And so, if they didn't have the lab or the computing cluster to be able to do it,
they will never, they will never do it. But now, the way things stand, there are all these
online platforms that allow you to access and analyze data for your own area, for
where you want to look. And that makes it really interesting, in that sense. So, that's why it's
changing many, many, many, many, many more eyes, looking at something, you know, equals creativity,
explosion, creativity ideas and things that are being explored. Awesome, awesome. In addition to your
faculty post, I mentioned that you're the Africa program director at NASA Harvest. Can you talk a
little bit about NASA Harvest and what it is, what it's hoping to achieve? Havas studied in 2017,
it is NASA's and NASA's Agriculture and Food Security Program. The idea is, over the years,
NASA has invested a lot of money in terms of not only missions collecting data, but, you know,
of the surface of the earth, as well as, you know, looking out the space, among other things.
And they've invested a lot of money in terms of research. And so, research around land,
use and land cover change, analyses, research around water resources, understanding where our
water is, what health that water is. And with these investments means there's, you know,
an explosion also in terms of solutions, but a lot of these remain in research. And so,
there are a few programs that are working under what is called the Applied Sciences Program.
So, this, the Havas program falls under the Applied Sciences Program. And the idea of the
Applied Sciences Program is that there is research that's being done and it can be at several
levels of maturity. And, you know, the highest level of maturity means that the outcome of this
particular research equals, you know, influencing or impacting on a decision. And so Havas is
one that is focused on supporting decision making and agriculture through the utilization of
remote sensing. And so, if you think about somebody doing an experimental field,
field research to understand how Maze grows and how you can, you know, increase your productivity,
that could just be purely a research paper, right? But then getting from that research to be
able to monitor it over a really large area, that is another level of maturity. So, you monitor
over a large area, maybe you monitor it over a long time. But then maybe the Department of Agriculture
decides, well, this information is telling us this particular region is not performing well for,
you know, the reasons A, B, C, D. And so, we need to, you know, develop a policy to address this
concerns in that particular region. And so, that research would have matured. So, from just a
field experiment, to a large scale monitoring, to then influencing what the Department of Agriculture
might do. And so, Havas is basically at that space to see as much research maturity at that level.
But it's also a user-driven initiative in the sense that there is a use case in mind. And so,
there have been lots of experimental small scale studies that show the possibilities of things
that you can understand and do better with remote sensing. But not that many examples of them
being used in decision making. And so, we're working in that space to move things, you know,
things further ahead in that sense. And we're trying to do it at a global scale.
Get them in hands of the folks that might be able to use them.
Exactly. And I mean, the other advantage, of course, is that the fact that with satellite data,
we have this kind of snoptic view, you can use the same satellite data over really, really large areas,
over long-term. And so, in places where action is or is, you know, after the fact,
so if there was a huge flooding event, response is typically, you know, to help people get out of
risky areas. This potential that, you know, you could forecast that a little bit earlier. But then
figuring out how to get the knowledge of the forecast into the hands of people who will be
impacted is a whole other dimension. And so, trying to figure out how to narrow that gap from
data to decision is, you know, something that is really important is not something that's not
really easy to do. And that's what Havas is trying to do. Can you help us take a step back and
kind of contextualize the broad challenge of food security, you know, the number of folks that
are impacted by it. And you've also, in your presentation, you shared recent events that have
catalyzed this need to be really careful, you know, even before COVID made, you know,
things difficult for everyone in terms of supply chains and things like that. Can you talk a little
bit about the problem broadly? You know, with food security in itself, I think not a lot of people
think about it. Even people who are, you know, experiencing it, you know, I think about it as a
food security. But what it, you know, in simple terms, it just means that you have food, you know,
you have people, you have food all the time. So, you not only have access to it, as in it is
available at your grocery store, but you have the income of the money to be able to acquire it.
And the other, you know, there, it has like these broad components around, so availability and
access. So availability, it being at the store or coming from my garden, and then access is,
can I reach that garden, or can I reach the market? That's, you know, another component,
in addition to, can I buy it? And then utilization is that, you know, the quality of the food in
itself. So there might be food, but it might be, you know, no vegetables, or things like that,
that are really critical for a healthy diet, right? Healthy nutritious diet. And then stability is,
is the other component, which means that food being available today, but not tomorrow or not
into weeks is not a stable security. And so, for security means all of those things and trying
to be sure that you can sustain those over long term. And then of course, there is, you know,
having a sustainable food system means that all of these components are addressed over the long term.
And so, then being addressed over the long term means that food would be available, accessible
and stable over really long term for community. And unfortunately, you know, we're not doing so
great in that space, in terms of global food security. And I think sometimes, you know,
it's portrayed as if it's, you know, in poor countries or, you know, lower-middle-income countries.
But it's a white problem, including in the United States, where people worry about food and where
your food will come from, you know, is one of the indicators of a food insecure household,
for example. And so, you know, the numbers that have been coming out of these food security
assessments, you know, quite alarming where we have an average, you know, between 2020, you know,
2020 until now, an average 828 million people without, you know, that food insecure. And because of
COVID, I think they estimated an additional, I think an additional 200 million people from between
29, 20, beginning of 2020 until now. And that's because COVID, in fact, is so many parts of our
food system. So it impacted food access, it impacted food production, people not being able to work,
and people not being able to, you know, things not being able to move at the pace that they used to
move before so food can be available at the market. And then, in addition to, you know, just the
basic fact that, you know, food is not accessible available and, you know, too many people, we have,
you know, the added context of the conflict between the Ukraine and Russia, where both countries
being huge contributors to global food security. So, you know, the largest producers for some of
the most critical crops, wheat, for example, maize, other many countries are actually really struggling
in the sense that if you think about a country like Egypt that imports, I think it was some 80 or
so percent of their grain from one or both of them, not having any wheat coming through for a long
time, that means that food prices in Egypt would skyrocket, which, you know, impact on what
people can eat. And of course, food systems are also very complex because they are also traditions
around them. So, you can just substitute, you know, a standard traditional food with, you know,
some other random things. So, you can replace, for example, bread typically made with wheat,
with bread made with corn, sometimes you actually cannot reproduce it, you know, if you know,
like a naan or a tapati, for example. So, you know, those things are incredibly complicated.
And then, so, outside of conflict, I'm just going to add, this is the last point I guess I'll add
is that there are all these events that are happening that, you know, for a lot of places until
the last couple of years, climate change has been something that's, you know, spoken about as
something that could happen in the future or something that, you know, might never impact on
communities. But if you look at, you know, the last couple of years, and if you look at a very
specific area, you might find that overlapping, sometimes overlapping, at the time sequential
events happen, that wipe out entire food systems and sometimes entire communities. So, you have
stream flooding events, you have things like locusts, you know, destroying crops, you have
things like landslides, you know, that not only damage people's property, take many lives,
but they also destroy food sources. I usually use this example in my presentations where there's
a cyclone that happened in 2019, cyclone I die. It was around March 2019. And it affected a lot
of countries in South Africa, cost so many lives, destroyed so much property. And while it was
happening, you know, in East Africa, which is a few kilometers north of where the cyclone hit,
you know, there were kind of had forecasts, it's fantastic, potentially good normal growing season.
But because of the cyclone, moisture got pulled out of East Africa into the cyclone and what ended
up, you know, what was projected to be a good start of season ended up being a failed season.
It was like crop failure in Kenya. And so, you have these extreme, extreme events happening,
you know, next to each other. So, if any of these countries dependent on each other for, you know,
multiple things, you can see that, you know, none of that would be possible. And so, it's
usually the poor of the poorest that are impacted. And so, it's really, really complicated. And I
think, I think, we've caught some particular one of those things that lead us to think that
we really have to think big, we really have to think wide, and we really have to think sustainably.
And, you know, things that seem so far away from us actually, not that far away.
The last example highlights the, as you mentioned, the complexity of these systems and all of the
the interconnections across countries and regions. There are also, I guess, many
players in the system. There are the consumers. There are the producers. There are stores. There
are, you know, the inputs to production. I get the impression that your research focuses on
two particular constituents, farmers and policy makers. Is that an accurate assessment?
And can you talk about, you know, why those two and how you decide where to focus?
My research, you know, is primarily trying to understand agriculture production.
And ultimately, hope that what I understand and learn could be utilized by policy makers. And so,
we focus on understanding where crops are growing, how they're growing, and what the
production might be. This is just like one of the things that inform food availability.
You know, and, you know, in the end, if you really want to understand that complexity of food security,
you would need to, you know, go beyond just that. And so, you would need to understand how market
function. If an extreme event happens, is there a potential thing that can address this? And
you being able to figure out how to quantify those things is really critical. In some places,
it's kind of, I mean, it's straight forward, not so straightforward, but much more straightforward.
So, if there is a flood, for example, in Maryland, right? And people's households wiped out,
you know, households have insurance. People might, if people have insurance, they might be,
you know, be put up somewhere for a couple of weeks until things come down. The, you know,
Maryland national, the Maryland might have a storage, you know, storage facility that they can
bring, you know, medical equipment, food, among other things to support people who were directly
impacted. In the case, for example, where that cyclone hit, this might not be possible at all.
And so, people have absolutely nothing. So, what you want to do is prevent people being
in that situation. So, we focus on trying to understand, you know, if you think about
forecasting early where a drought might happen, that could be really useful for if a government needs
to respond, to figure out where can they get food that can help support communities. You know,
you might want to think about things like infrastructure. So, it's, it's, it's, it's incredibly
complicated. And then for, for the farmers, really, they're a great source of knowledge about what's
actually really happening in a region. And even though we, sometimes I think we think that we know
better, we rarely do no better. We probably never know better, because they're in that situation where
they understand what is happening in their field and the best place person to kind of address it.
And so, what you want to do is just give them context. So, what is happening in a broader region,
what my, you know, what is being forecast and what that might mean. So, for example,
the low-cost invasion in East Africa, I think the UN had predicted that there would be an invasion
maybe, I'm going to say, eight, nine months actually early. The reason for this is, you know,
the locus habitat, the way locus lay their eggs and everything is something that is very easy to
measure or track. So, you know, if there is sandy soil somewhere that's usually dry, it rains a
little bit there and then vegetation shows up. There's a high probability that, you know, there's,
this would be swarms coming out of that area. And so, these conditions were established earlier in
2019. And so, the, the right thing would be that you would, you know, inform the teams on the ground
that do kind of the monitoring to be able to address it. But the challenge of that particular
invasion, even though that early warning existed, always provided, the places where it happened were
in conflict. So, part of the genesis of that particular locus is from Yemen. And so,
there's not much that could have been done. And then, and so, you know, it just continued to
inspire out of control. And so, a good example, though, would be, you know, a not-so-dem example of
what you could do and it could happen. In the case for drought, if you're trying to forecast that
they will be food insecurity, we can see a lot of things in the growing season with satellite
data. And so, you can look at conditions over time, how they compared it to, you know, past years,
you can quantify damage, you can quantify extreme temperature, extreme rainfall, very low,
you know, low, high. And when you do that, you can give an indication of how widespread
crop failure might be. And so, this might be in the future, right? And so, what that would equal,
you know, some emergency response, which might be in time for when people actually really need
the support, oh, that could inform a policy, which is where it ties into the policy maker,
that the government is aware and informed of the extent of the severity, so that the response
is actually appropriate. So, assuming there'll be like, you know, 500 people and then it turns out
it's like 500,000 people are affected, you know, it's a big problem. And so, trying to be able to
give a better indicator of, you know, the level of response that's needed is, you know, pretty,
pretty important. You spoke a little bit about the growing access to data sets, remote sensing
data sets and earth observation data sets. Can you elaborate a little bit more on how data
availability has changed over the years and the types of data that you're using to do this kind
of work? So, you know, since the 1970s, we've had LAN monitoring systems, so we have the Landsat
satellites from NASA, they've continued that mission. And the challenge in the past was one,
we couldn't store all the data. And two, there were not enough downlink stations in order to store
the data. And so, if you go, try to go back in time, you'll find huge gaps in observation.
In addition to the fact that the part of the value of remote sensing is the frequency. So,
if you're trying to understand something over time, you need to see the same place over and over.
And so, then there is a modus satellite. It's called modus. It's a moderate resolution satellite.
And I actually, I don't think counts as moderate anymore, considering the new ranges. But
it is, it collects data over the earth every day, right? And those data have been stored since the year 2000.
And they're available for the whole world. And in addition to modus, there's a follow-on mission
that was meant to replace modus if it goes down. So, it's actually one of those miracle satellites,
because apparently it was not expected to last more than, I'm going to say, two years or three years
or something like that. But it's been, it's been working since 2000. And its replacement has been
in orbit. Well, I think for more than 10 years, actually, like when that one first came out,
it was like, oh my god, modus is going to disappear. But then it's still working. And I was terrified,
because a lot of my researchers focused on data coming from that. But this is 250 meter resolution.
So, for every pixel, it's 250 meters on the ground. This is like not great for, if you're really
trying to understand what's happening. So, the Landsat satellites at 30 meter to 50 meter daily is
great, because we can see, you can observe large scale things in a pretty decent way. And then
around 2008, 2018, the European Space Agency launched the Sentinel one and two satellites.
And these complement the Landsat satellites. So, in places where they were being observed
once every 14 days, it became once every three to four days, something like that. And so now we're
seeing multiple images every month for a specific area. But that doesn't include all the commercial
provisions that have been, all the commercial companies that are working in this space. So,
we have companies like Planet, where we have Sub-Daily, means two images in an area.
The data might not be directly utilized the same way as you would utilize Landsat in Sentinel too.
But because of this explosion in terms of cloud computing and capabilities to fuse data sets,
you can fuse them and kind of fill in the gaps. So, there's some incredible work that's going on.
And what that means is you just have to be able to process all that data. That makes sense of it.
When you say fuse them, what are the types of activities you're thinking there?
So, I'm going to use this example. So, you have Landsat, which is 30 meter resolution,
Sentinel 2, which is 20 meter resolution, can actually tell me the resolution.
Then there's another satellite, which is a radar satellite, Sentinel 1, which is radar data,
not optical data. In order to be able to view, to get insights from all of them combined,
you need to be able to process that. And sometimes they're from around the same time. So,
you need to be able to fuse them in a sense that when you're looking at, let's say, a mountain.
If you're looking at with optical data, you will probably miss some of the terrain.
But when you're looking at it with radar data, you can get the terrain information.
It's kind of an alignment problem of you have all these images of different geographical
areas, different time, different modalities, and how to use them together. Exactly.
So, that you're not using them separately to understand what is happening.
So, a big part of the technical part of your talk was focused on some of the key challenges
that you face in trying to apply this kind of new wealth of data to solving the food security
problem. And, you know, we were just talking about this, you know, this as a wealth of data, but
that was also your first challenge that in many ways the data is lacking in particular
with regard to kind of its, you know, realism and the ability to apply it to the types of problems
you want to apply to, and the availability of benchmarks for the kinds of tasks that you have.
Can you elaborate a little bit on that challenge and we can dig into some of the things that you've
done and your research to address it? Yeah. So, while we're just talking about the explosion
and data sets and, you know, there's been an explosion in products coming from these data sets.
So, we see a lot of global products on land use and crop land, among other things, you know,
building data sets that you could, you know, utilize for many, many different these cases. The problem
and the challenge is when you start looking at, you know, very specific geographies. So,
if a model has been developed to work really, really well for mapping maze in the United States,
you know, it'll probably work okay yet in Europe, maybe pretty well, because of the type,
I'm going to use a type of agriculture. So, we have, you know, monocrops, highly mechanized agriculture,
and if you're trying to understand yield, typically the farmers have combined harvesters,
so they know exactly what's coming out of their field. It becomes kind of pretty straightforward
to develop, I'm using what's straightforward, it's not so straightforward, you know, but it is
much more straightforward considering, you know, the other example I'm going to give. And so,
you can measure, we can kind of forecast and give a good indication of what productivity will
be in the United States. A good data set that I really like to, you know, kind of highlight is
the United States Department of Agriculture keeps updates this what's called a crop land data layer.
It's a really interesting data set, like you can see crop land over the last couple of years,
over I think maybe 20 years in the United States. And you can see, you know, shifts and changes
where people are growing wheat have switched to this, how they switch, how frequently they switch.
And it might seem trivial, but it's actually a really good data set in a sense that if you have
in addition to just where things are growing, how things are growing, and how they're performing,
you know, you can clearly understand that, you know, the production area for maybe for wheat is
changing because it's, you know, declining in one area, and you know, it remains steady over another
area. So, which could be due to warming temperatures, shifts in spring, and stuff like that, right?
And so, when you, you know, flip it on a tad in a sense, when you start looking in much more
complex agricultural systems, so in many Africa, you might find that for every one field that is
in the corn belt of the U.S. might be about 20, 30, 40 fields. In addition to, it does not only have corn,
there are multiple other crops in it. People plant at different dates, people have completely
different management practices. And so, some of the very basic data sets that are required to start
building models to understand production incredibly challenging. So, doing field boundaries using
existing free data like Sentinel-2, which is 10-meter resolution, is not actually easy when you're
looking at smallholder agriculture, because the fields are really, really small. In addition to the
fact that they're small, they're multiple crops. And so, you want to be able to develop
processes or models that can help you model that better. So, you can give a better indication of
what the outcome at the end of the season will be. One interesting thing, you know, that I think about
two, sometimes is like, you know, that agriculture might be criticized as, you know, not so great.
Like, why don't they do it the other way? Or, you know, of course, you know, the group, you know,
maybe in the future, everything will be sorted, or the fields will be larger, among other things.
But recognition that large-scale agriculture is actually in the long-term, detrimental, even
short-term, sometimes, to the food systems, ecosystems, entire ecosystems. So, you actually want
to be able to monitor the small scale, makes type fields better, because this is where the future
of a sustained system is. And so, we want to be able to do that a lot better. So, use what's available,
why we're advocating to get better things that are most suited to understand the systems. So,
you can provide, you know, a better indication to a farmer who might be mixing things, to tell them,
you know, or to show them, give them evidence that this particular crop does not generally do well
for your region, then we have tracked it over many years over a really large area. And farmers
that grow this, this ends up being a more lucrative crop, and not keep them doing or developing or
investing in those crops, and not actually meant to see them through poverty. It's an interesting
idea. What I'm hearing there is that, because I had that same thought, okay, so, you know, there's
those small scale farmers are in some stage of progression towards more efficient, you know,
large scale farming. And what I'm hearing you say is actually it's an adaptation. Small scale
farming is an adaptation to their conditions. And, you know, from that perspective, you know,
while it may be less efficient in some ways, it's more efficient in others for the actual situation
on the ground where they are. So we use, think about it, you use a lot less fertilizer, a lot less
input. A good example in East Africa, may is grown with beans, beans are nitrogen fixing crops,
so the main benefits from the nitrogen coming from the, from the beans. And so it's like,
it's like a self-fertilizing system. But if you have, you know, a highly mechanized agriculture,
there's no way to have as the beans without destroying the maize, for example. And so, I think,
I think about it as well. Let's not adapt the agriculture to our technology, let our technology
support the approach to agriculture, yeah. Like, it's so hard, you know, like, measuring yield
of productivity or crop type in a mixed field is so, so hard. It's probably next to impossible. It's
one pixel of two crops, right? But to me, it is so important that we can have some
a way of, you know, giving some indication, this crop, this field is mixed and when they're
mixed in this combination, you know, 20%, 30%, this is what the yield will be, you know, across the
two crops. Like, that is for me a much more rewarding outcome than, you know, being trying to push
farmers to just grow one crop so we can measure exactly what is coming from that one crop because
they're benefiting from, you know, this relationship, this symbiotic relationship between maize and beans,
you know, where I come from actually. It's weird, we're trying to have this project where we've
been collecting street-level imagery and we're trying to use computer vision to, to basically
the street to sat, yeah. So the project street to sat is like a baby, not a baby, it's like the
twin brother to another project called helmets, labeling crops. So the helmets are taking pictures
as they're writing their motorbikes and then street to sat is how we come from those images to
the labels that we need for our either pipeline and every time we're looking, so we're trying to
create like a data set, we're trying to label a data set that then we feed into street to sat
to detect crops over a large area. And every single time we go, if I can, if I can continue.
Let me continue getting you something. Now I was going to say that and every time we look at
these images, the images of where I'm from, you would find bananas beans, you find bananas beans,
a plant of sugar cane, a plant of pineapple and be like it's like in all in one image. It's all
in one image and everything. So like when we're doing our label cafe and going through the images,
I have to be in the label cafe to be like, that's not that, that's not this, that's not this.
But it's like, you know, by default, you know that that is like Uganda because this is like a thing,
you know, you go you, you can get your pineapple in that corner right there and then you can have
a thing of sugar cane to eat while you're working and then you have your beans and then you have
like it's just like total complete. You might actually have a coffee plant, you know, under the tree
because coffee does well under and the trees. So, you know, it's quite, it's quite interesting.
Talk more about street descent. Like it, what I'm gathering is that you, you've got folks on motorbikes
with, with cameras on their helmets and, you know, maybe cars with cameras or something else.
And you're taking these, these images from the edges of fields and using that to try to enrich
overhead satellite data. Is that right? So that sounds crazy. It is fun. So to give a good example,
typically the way you collect training data for let's say crop type. So we could, we can identify
from a satellite image what's crop, not crop, like what's a crop field and what's not a crop field.
You can look at the time, you know, like a time series data and you can tell
around the start of the growing season, you have to have all of this context around the started
growing season. You can see something go up and then down, which could be a crop, right? So you
can generate labels for that. So we do, you know, on screen digitization for that. You cannot do
this for crop type. You could, for some, if you have very high resolution data, like I know what
a banana looks like from space at three meter resolution. There's a very clear pattern,
bananas are grown spaced out because they, you know, their leaves go really wide. You can tell
palm tree, for example, from any other tree. But even in the US, sometimes trying to distinguish
me from space at course resolution, like, you know, the course resolution without any prior
information, you might not be able to do that. And then of course, where we're working,
you have a lot smaller fields, a lot, a lot of mixes. And so we want to generate, you know, a decent
sampling, a decent training set that then you could train your hundreds of thousands of billions
of pixels over the area. And so to do this, you would typically go with your phone or GPS,
stand in the field, be like, with the GPS, we have these applications like open data kit,
use, you know, stand there, record location, crop, non-crop, open what the crop is. And then you
would go, you know, go to the next. So if you're doing this, imagine going on, you know, multi,
multi month hike over a really large area, because you need to walk from one field to another.
So I've done a lot of this. It takes a lot of time. It takes forever. But the number of samples
you get as so few, even if you did it like an entire year, because you were trying to do things
not only in time, but in space. So you want to map a whole country, not a small region. And so
this is, you know, where this idea of sort of doing helmets came from. The idea is GoPro cameras
have location, right? And we can take pictures as you're driving. And so we were trying to do,
what we're trying to do is basically collect images, street level images. So as they're writing
on the road, they're taking pictures as they're driving. And so we have, I think probably have
like over five million images now from maybe six or so countries. And so, and like we've had people
who want to volunteer to collect the data. And what that problem now, the new problem is,
we have over five million images, right? So, you know, machine learning comes really important,
really quickly, pretty, pretty rapidly. So this approach is actually pretty cool in a sense that
even without, you know, automating, you know, the entire process, we still have five million
images over really, really, really large geographies. And so we could use those images. You can load
them, for example, in Google Earth Pro. You see the image, the street, and the side of it. And you
could, you know, label, you can hand label maze beings in this case, which you could not do before.
But what we're trying to do with street to sat is reduce this. One is throw away everything that
does not have crop from the get go, right? So if no crop detected thrown away, we're trying to
prioritize like key food security crops from each one of the countries. And then what you want
to do next is try to detect where crops are like the specific crops. So we're labeling to create
like a crop type the same as I guess with like, you know, trying to detect what if it's a cat or a
dog in an image, we're trying to check whether it's maze of beings in an image. And so, and then we
would basically run our entire database through it and then be able to evaluate how the model is
performing. And hopefully, you know, come out with over a million images over, I don't know,
hundreds of thousands of kilometers across really, you know, large countries, because we also
wanted to capture the heterogeneity like maze in, I'm trying to think of like maze in Germany,
it does not look like maze in, you know, parts of the US. So, you know, beings, some beings look
very different. So we want to be able to capture these crops in different conditions.
Um, is what we're trying to achieve. And it's, you know, it's a, it's a really fun project. Also,
in addition to the fact that, you know, we're, we're evolving and working with everyday people,
extension agents, students, uh, tech mototaxi drivers are collecting the data. Um, you know, it's, uh,
and we're trying to win in many, many, many, many countries. So, yeah, you shared in your
presentation, uh, kind of a high level snapshot of the processing pipeline that you use for a street
to set. It's all Google Cloud. It looks like you've got some functions in there and you throw stuff
up on Firebase. Uh, I guess we don't need to go super deep into that, but it's, it's, um,
I guess the strike to me is cool that all that's available for this use case.
So, um, this, the, you know, I initial pipeline of street to sat was actually developed by a,
a graduate student in computer science in our, uh, in, uh, university of Maryland. And it's kind of
been iterated on over and over, but, um, Ivan, who is our machine learning developer, sort of worked on,
trying to automate, like once images are uploaded, they trigger a function that then triggers street
to sat and then we get an initial detection. Um, and then part of what, uh, Madhava, who developed
the initial street to sat, part of his task was to, um, make sure that we can get, you know,
a distance estimate. So the thing the point I didn't actually mention before is that the image
is on the road, but we want the field. And so, um, he was trying, you know, part of the initial
work that he did was trying to move the point from the road into the field. And then we've worked
with a, a different, uh, team of students. That actually sounds like a really tough problem.
Like, it is a really tough problem. Depending on the orientation, you might have fields all around
you. So which way do you project the, the, the point? You looking at like accelerate,
accelerometer data in the images or something? So there is, so the image is at timestamped,
and the rule is the, um, the camera is always facing the past and decide, no matter what the
country is, right? And so we have the timestamped, which gives us timestamped, and the direction
is sort of what we used to figure out where the field is. That's one point. But then, um, you know,
some of the, some of the initial ideas were around doing things like doing structure from motion
to like determine exactly the distance from the road, you know, from the, from the car,
or the motorbike to the field. But there's things that, the things that we're looking at, you know,
they're not buildings or cars, like may stand like little, little, little, little, little,
little, little, little lines. So like observing the same thing in multiple directions is not
that straightforward. Um, and so it's a, you know, it's, it's an interesting problem still. That's,
that's kind of what, um, makes it really interesting. And so right now, you know, our main focus is,
so we have kind of like that initial street to set up. So once we upload images, uh,
the initial street to set, detects, uh, sugar cane and maze, it gives us a preliminary map
with a location of where those fields are. So you can evaluate that data set, for example,
but what we're working on now is adding more crops and then trying to create what would be a test set
so that whenever the model produces, you know, whenever we go through the, you know, the complete
database, we have a good indication of like where things are and can actually evaluate whether the,
the, you know, how, how well the model is linked. Um, and then there's another component of it,
which is, uh, initially when we were thinking about it, uh, we would just use an app for labeling.
So we also have that, uh, data set. So, you know, we're just labeling on an application,
on the phone, which is just move the field. You just move the photograph to the crop that it is.
It still doesn't fix the distance, uh, you know, it doesn't fix the location part, but
we definitely have like, you know, somewhere to start. So it's not like there's no direction and no
location. We have location and direction. We just need to be able to move the point to the right field.
The other complexity is, remember, my description of the very small fields,
as you're driving, you could go through 30 fields in a minute, I'm making that up.
I'm making, I'm making that up. It's not 30 minutes, you know, 30 fields in a minute.
It, it could be, it could be five fields in a minute, right? It's not like, you know,
when you're in cancers or, uh, Illinois, when you're not in Illinois, where you're like,
we, it's just one field, right? For at least a minute. Okay. And so being able to move the image
to the right corresponding field is actually still hard. Um, so, yeah.
Hmm, interesting. Is street descent related to the crop harvest work?
So street, so crop harvest is, um, at database or a dataset, a package where in order for us to
develop these crop land crop type maps, we spend a lot of time labeling and all trying to collect
crop type data. But there are a lot of people who are doing it. And so crop harvest was born out
of the fact that, um, we can ingest other people's data, our own data into a package that feeds into
our, um, pipeline open map flow for crop land mapping. And so it is, it's an open source, um,
open access dataset with over 90, maybe we're like at 100,000, uh, crop land and crop type labels
that are sort of machine learning ready that you can pull them in your pipeline, um,
for your own, um, training. And, um, the open map flow, the way it's kind of set up, it's not
only for crop, crop land crop or crop land. Um, if you have labels for other use cases, you can
go if, for example, if it's buildings or forest, for example, you could utilize it to do the same.
So, but the idea was being able to use what's available and make and streamlining it. So that's
like not like, you know, different, you have to do a lot of work to, to be able to go to the next
level in your, in your group. So, and so every data that we collect feeds into crop harvest,
and when we collect, um, when we happy with our labels from sweet to sad, they will be made public
through crop harvest as well as, you know, the CSV files with, uh, you know, crop, uh, and the
location. Let's maybe jump into open map flow. One of the challenges that you talked about is this
idea of scaling, uh, deployment. And in particular, you were referencing this idea that, you know,
I guess maybe it's kind of the classic, uh, you know, academic versus real world. Like a lot of the
studies will stop at this model, but what you really need is a map in your case, um, and this
ability to get, uh, dense predictions. Um, can you elaborate on that challenge a little bit more,
and what's that, and that gap between, you know, what you see a lot and what you need, uh,
and then talk about how open map flow fits into that. So there is, um, I mean, with,
with a lot of research, usually you're, you're studying a very, it's usually a very defined problem.
So either it's a small area, um, and, you know, you collect all the labels for your small area,
you develop, you build your model perfectly and, you know, you evaluate it and, you know, publish your
paper. When it comes to coming from that small sample area that you've, you know, I don't know,
thrown every possible tool at and try to do it over a larger area, it becomes a lot, a lot,
you know, it becomes very, very complicated. So as part of, um, open map flow, you know, kind of the
the motivation for it is that we get requests and all with our own work we need to develop
these very basic products. So we need crop land because we want to know where crops are,
so we can look at their conditions or we can try to look at yield. We will need crop type, you
know, going further down the line. So in order to do this at scale continuously, it, you know,
with the capacity we have, we can't be doing it from scratch every time. And so,
open map flow, you know, developed by Ivan, who's a machine learning engineer,
is motivated by one, optimizing resources. So every time you try to use deep learning models
and cloud compute, you know, it just becomes too expensive. In addition to we are trying to
predict over really, really, really, really large areas. The question is we want to know how much
does it cost if somebody wanted to do it? One of, that's one of the questions, you know, we want to
know how much it costs in terms of input and time. So like in, you know, in initial work, it just
like took, it took a really long time to get to where it is right now, but where we are is that
we have a clear kind of work stream, a very well documented process. That's all public.
We have tasks that are set for ourselves. And this, I think the other part is being able to have
additional people contribute to our work, as well as if we have new team members, we can
continue to produce these things that we said that we do and we do really well. That's the other
thing. And so, coming from developing a cropland map for Togo, this is in 2020, the beginning of
the pandemic, where the Togo Lee's government went to know where all the croplands are for
programs that they were trying to implement to be able to figure out where to send money, where
farmers might be. So, cropland is a proxy for where farmers are. And so, when they needed the map
in 10 days, so imagine the scrambling that it's not a lot of scrambling that we had to do one,
there were no labels for Togo, they might have been less than 10. So, labeling, Togo,
running it and then evaluating the map and then delivering it, that was a process. And then
the next part was, can we run this at scale in the sense that Togo, Kenya is many times the size of
Togo in a larger country with more complexity, because parts of Kenya has different ecological
systems. And so, there's these things that you have to consider when we're training the model,
like the density of your samples, like those sort of sort of, you know, additional things,
it becomes much more complex in other countries or it's simplified in others. And so then there was
Kenya. And then we had to do it for six countries, then we had to do for Uganda, Ronda, Tanzania.
So, the question is like, how do we get, how do we not do what we did during Togo, how do we,
you know, how do we not do what we did during Kenya and kind of keep those parts that work really
smoothly and kind of have them streamlined, that's where OpenMapflow is. And since we're, you know,
it's the same kind of the input as the same. So, time series of Sentinel, Sentinel 1, Sentinel 2 data,
you can utilize it for other things, like buildings or forests, because, you know, we use the same
data sets to map these additional things. So, it's kind of a, it's a Python library and it's,
it like maps out your entire pipeline for processing these images, training models, and then
creating at the end maps. So, it's basically, in addition to, you know, after you run your model,
you know, look at the evaluate it, you can decide whether you want to, you know, develop a map,
or if you want to improve your training data, in order to actually get to an accuracy that is
acceptable. So, trying, if we get, you know, the model's accuracy is 0.001, we probably don't want
it at all to bother with, you know, running it at scale. And so, we kind of set like a threshold
of 0.7.75 before we can, you know, try to develop a map that then is evaluated. So, in addition to,
once the product, the final map is produced, it's not final, it has to be evaluated. And so,
on top of that, I have a student who's developed this tool for evaluating. So, like a, a graphical
user interface based on Google attention, for someone who does not need to know how to make a map,
or, you know, do fancy things, but they can zoom in and out and kind of evaluate where the map
is doing poorly. And then we use those as input, you know, as training into the model again,
and try to improve it for the next iteration. Because there's also the fact that you might have,
you know, 90, whatever, something, percent accuracy. But in fact, your model is, the output is
really poor. So, use this example showing, you know, what cropland is in the smallholder systems
that we're looking at, an existing global product that has potentially, you know, an affluent
school of 0.7, right? But when, and then with the same score in another region, you know, it's clear
that it is cropland. So, the fields, the fields in the United States or in Europe have clearly,
you know, fields. With the same accuracy over Kenya or Rwanda, you might find, you know,
very poor results. And that's because, you know, either the design of their,
their approach is flawed in some sense, where the labels are coming from a specific area,
or the people who did the labeling, and are familiar with the context of the, you know,
the other countries or the distribution of labels is not, is not represent the area that they're
mapping. So, those are some of like the additional things. And so, we have that end, end, end, end,
end evaluation where somebody looks at it and determines whether it is good enough. You know,
we can never get it to 100% of beautiful painting, but we want to be confident that, you know,
we don't have a whole city label that is cropped. For example, or a whole swamp label, you know,
a whole swamp, you know, mapped as cropland, just because we train the model really poorly.
And they're the part of the complexity too, which is where trying to think about things like
these, where they call agroecological zones, the distribution of crops in time and in space,
in addition to very complex or simple crops like rice that might have the same exact
and porous signals as a swamp with just some grass, right? And so, this is where the problems
end up happening where you have something labeled as cropland when it's actually just a swamp.
So, yeah. And usually people who know these areas, you can just say that that is wrong,
like automatically, you know, they don't need to actually be physically on the ground,
but they know that this area is definitely swamp. Or if it is crop type, they know this is definitely
a sugar cane belt and not maze, you know, so your map is really bad. So open map flow provides a way
to kind of close that feedback loop and pull labels back into the system based on the predicted maps.
Interesting, interesting. So, the third challenge is this whole idea of learning from limited
label data. And you just mentioned this broad challenge of context. And you're doing some
interesting things to try to address that multitask learning and what you call task-informed meta-learning.
Can you talk about that challenge broadly and those approaches that you've developed?
So, this is the meta-learning and the task-informed meta-learning has been work that's been developed
by our other machine learning developer, Gabrielle Singh, who's at McGill University. And specifically,
this is going towards the crop type mapping. So, while we're compiling crop harvest,
so while we can do cropland, I'd say that doing crop type properly is, you know, the end
objective because we want to know conditions for specific crops. But even in our 90,000-plus
data set of crop type labels, over 80 or 90 percent of them are actually just crop non-crop
and is very limited crop type. And one of the reason for this is, well, it's expensive to collect,
as I mentioned before, and one of the motivations, of course, for helmets and street-to-sat
is that we want to be able to have labels over really large areas. But prior to that,
in, I think in 2020 or 2021, we had these labels from Kenya from a small region. And so, Gabi
kind of set out to evaluate whether with this small, very few labels, you can generate a decent map.
So, part of the limitation, of course, is that you can evaluate it over a really large area,
but would a meta-learning or a task-info meta-learning model perform, you know, give similar results
compared to like other other models. So, you know, trying to do, to use like random forest for
crop type mapping when you have 60 labels over a whole county in Kenya, does not really work.
And so, that's kind of the motivation for that. So, at the same time, while we're trying to learn
efficiently, we're also trying to address the gap. So, then, you know, later on, we can, you know,
we can further evaluate whether the meta-learning model will perform the same as,
or better than one if we have, you know, if we're drowning in labels in that sense.
And so, with the multi-task learning, how does the multi-task help kind of inform that context?
Metal-learning models typically, you know, work, you basically try to kind of pre-train on a lot
fewer labels. The other, I think, the other component in that particular pipeline is the fact that
you can kind of sort of pre-train a model with giving it examples of like what crops generally look
like in a particular area. And then, you know, find, and then try to prioritize those labels for
that specific task. So, I think it's also one of the, one of the motivations for, for crop
harvest in the sense that when we're trying to do problem mapping in Kenya, there are other labels
from other places. So, are there other things we can learn about crop land generally?
And then, can we learn that can be useful for understanding crop land specifically in Kenya?
So, the case for Maze is that, you know, giving a model example of what Maze looks like,
because we might have more Maze labels in the United States first and in France, but not so many
in Kenya, is there useful information that the model can utilize to better map Maze in Kenya?
I guess I'm trying in my head to combine multitask, which I think of as like
you're training some model and it has multiple objectives and you're kind of using them together
and meta-learning, which is like learning languages. Like learning abstract construct
abstract things that help the model like perform better.
I think the summary there is that labels her big problem and the use cases that you're trying to
work on and in addition to kind of building out data sets and kind of tooling for mapping,
there's algorithmic work that can be done to use techniques like multitask and meta-learning
to try to enhance your ability to create models in these limited label data environments,
scenarios. So use what might be available in other geographies where the data might be more
readily available and then in addition to, I mean when I think the biggest challenge we've had,
so Gabby tried to run, you know, try to scale the Maze model that performed really well for this
small area but even with the result that we have, we don't have any data to evaluate the result
because over the larger area we don't have examples of that specific crop that we're trying to map
and so which is why we're like approaching these like all these problems even though they're
very different but the same they're all part of the broader objective addressing that because I
think, you know, even if we were able to get to a really efficient model in a long term,
but if we kind of evaluate it over the larger area we would still be, you know,
it would still not be yet a good place in that sense. Yeah, I mean part of what strikes me is
really cool about the approach you've taken is that you just all of the systems that you've created
that kind of tie together to, you know, ultimately solve this set of big carry problems.
Yeah, I think when you're working on one you realize that, you know, something is a huge gap
and in order to advance this one task you will need to advance this other task and so
while Gabby is trying to work on, you know, crop type mapping, we're also trying to figure out
a way of addressing the crop type data gap and so when these two things converge in the future
we would have a very good space. So when we're developing, so within OpenMap 4 is to be
called crop mask. It was, you know, there's a part of the pipeline that focuses on crop mask
generation. In that process we have to streamline label generation. So we use a platform called
Collect Earth Online that allows you to look at multiple times series of multiple different
satellite images that we use to derive our labels and so like part of what Ivan did was trying to
figure out how to one create your labeling projects, your labeling project and once it's done
it's pushed into OpenMap 4 that then, you know, gets into your, then you have your map at the end
that is evaluated and you run it at scale and then someone evaluates it that then feeds back so
that it's not like individual things that are all hanging out on their own, you know, so that you're
not, when you're in Collect Earth, you don't necessarily, you know, it's not such a download this
pool this year, put this here, type process. So it's, you know, it's a huge, a huge efforts towards
efficiency in the entire pipeline and we hope that, you know, the crop type mapping would also be
at that same level once we have the labels, which is where street to sat comes in, that once we
have street to sat, it would need, you know, it emerges into crop harvest that crop harvest is
already married to OpenMap 4 that then improves our crop type mapping. Yeah, yeah, you mentioned the
kind of the the Togo scenario and your ability to kind of provide this rapid response to the
government there in 10 days. Are there other kind of success stories or you know, moments or projects
that you and your team are proud of as an example of what this kind of work can enable?
This is, guess how many? One right now we're working on supporting regional food balance sheet
which is meant to give a regional indication of product productivity across multiple countries
in including Zambia, Malawi, Uganda, Ronda, Tanzania. And the idea is that all of these countries have
some place where they understand what production is in the larger region because it may be, you know,
exchange of crops. So the dashboard goes beyond this production, it looks at prices among other
things. And so our contribution in this is trying to do yield forecasting at scale. And so it's
in the sense that as in in multiple countries, using the same approach, you have the same understanding.
What's really good about this is that it gives an indication for a policy maker like what to do,
who to who to who to have deals with, you know, because fundamentally one of the biggest problems,
I did not give this example. I was there and I give it more and more nowadays is that
one of the biggest problem in Africa is infrastructure which empaths on food security because
you can't just move things if you want to. There's not, you know, storage facilities among
that things and it's easy to, you know, import for Egypt to get wheat from Ukraine. It's a lot easier
than it is to put together, for example, from South Africa or Zambia. And so this understanding
can open up markets and opportunities for these countries to collaborate and treat among us
each others. But another example is this, there's a risk financing which sort of like, you know,
one of the things that kind of motivates my work is that the data sets we have can give us an
indication of how to respond better or do things better. And so the motivation of this project
was that in this particular region in the northeast of Uganda, droughts always happen.
This, there's always crop failure almost every year and some pockets of this particular region.
And the question is how early can we know and how bad are things? So what's the scale of our
response? And so the idea was to use remote sensing data to be able to answer those questions.
So the level of severity across the region and the government has got a loan or has a loan or
grant from the World Bank. And there are this part of money that was intended for if there's a
problem, use this money distributed in this region based on some method, some metric. And so
part of what we did was use remote sensing to determine the severity of drought over the long
term in space and in time and then determine to at what level like set the threshold at what
level do we decide that there's going to be a problem? We should release funds. And then when we
release funds, how do we distribute it in space? And so this project ended in 2020, they're working
on a phase two, developing the phase two for the project going forward. And so what that means is,
you know, it's even though like that sort of pipeline was set and worked for that period,
for what we have to do is we need to do it better in a sense that there are newer data sets.
Maybe MODIS won't be able, so MODIS is the satellite mentioned before, won't be available
to support understanding the severity in space. In addition to its resolution, you know,
it's very poor for the context of this region is that then you want to be able to do it better
for the next iteration. And ultimately, what it meant is that people had access to other
sources of income that is, you know, outside of working in their fields that were, you know,
projected to fail in the end. So that's kind of like one of the other examples. And of course,
around accessibility, getting more people to use the tools, we've had countries implement
monitoring processes based on work that we have done. And of course, my favorite is
working with individuals and getting them to utilize and access and contribute to the
development processes over our pipeline. So street-to-sat would not exist if helmets did not exist
and helmets would not exist if border-border drivers or motorcycle taxi drivers and students
and collaborators in all these different countries, you know, we're not willing to try these things
out with us because, you know, when you're experimenting, you're like, oh, no, you're doing it wrong,
oh, no, maybe go back here, oh, no, you know, there's a lot of lots and lots of
own-nose. And I mean, one of the other things is like an initials phases of street-to-sat.
What we ended up doing was we went to an agricultural experimentation site and, you know,
they let us drive around the site and try to do these measurements, you know, from the
car to the field and, you know, the height of the crop, those types of things.
So being able to do that and work with local researchers is incredibly rewarding. I've run into
like a lot of students that I've worked with who know I don't want to get masters,
who know I don't want to get jobs that they're proud of. And, you know, that's actually probably
much more rewarding than any of all the other things.
You know, are there things that jump out at you as big, you know, needs or gaps or opportunities
for, you know, maybe folks that are listening that might want to, you know, contribute in this field
in some way? Well, definitely crop type. Crop type. I mean, there, but there are lots of people.
I mean, that's the other thing about that increased access. There are a lot of people looking at
these problems. And so I'm, you know, in the future, it's short term, there will be, you know,
really good ways to go about this. But I think some of the things that jump out to me is, you know,
around policies and structures that support this development of these processes. So
having more policy makers open to the integration of these tools and their workflows.
In addition to, I think, you know, generally as scientists and researchers, being able to
communicate our work in a way that, you know, does not scare people away. But I think the other is,
of course, which size into the communication is like being able to demonstrate the true
potential on its linkage to actual challenges, I think, is one of the most incredible things that
we can do as researchers. And I'm hoping more and more people can do that. Well, Catherine,
thanks so much for sharing a bit about what you're working on, very fascinating and important
stuff, and I really enjoyed learning about it. Thanks, and thanks for having me. Absolutely, thanks.
