Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast where I interview interesting
people doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
Once again, let's start the show by sending some love out to you, the listeners for your
continued support over the last few weeks and months.
This community continues to amaze us, continues to grow and to engage with us, which we love
to see.
We've said it before, but please don't hesitate to reach out to us with any questions,
comments, guest or topic requests or just a friendly hello via any of our various channels.
You can reach us on our Facebook page or Twitter at Twimble AI.
You can reach me directly at Sam Charrington on Twitter or you can email us at teamattwimoleia.com.
Speaking of community, please take note, the next Twimble online meetup is coming up soon.
On Tuesday, November 14th, at 3pm Pacific time, we'll be joined by Kevin T, who will be
presenting his paper, active preference learning for personalized portfolio construction.
If you've already registered for the meetup, you should have received an invitation with
all the details.
If you still need to sign up, just head on over to Twimoleia.com slash meetup to do so.
We hope to see you there.
Now as you may know, a few weeks ago we spent some time in New York City hosted by our
friends at NYU Future Labs.
About six months ago, we covered their inaugural AI Summit, an event they hosted to showcase
the startups in their first batch of their AI Nexus Lab Accelerator program, as well
as the impressive AI talent in the New York City ecosystem.
Well, this time we had the pleasure of interviewing the four startups from the second AI Nexus
Lab batch, Mount Clevverist, Bite AI, Second Mind, and Bowtie Labs.
We also interviewed some of the great speakers from the event, and we're presenting a couple
of those interviews to you this week.
If you missed any of the shows in the series, visit Twimoleia.com slash AI Nexus Lab 2 to
get caught up.
In this episode, I speak with Ross Fadley, a New York-based AI Lee with Insight Data Science.
Insight is a really interesting company offering a free seven week postdoctoral training fellowship,
helping individuals to bridge the gap between academia and careers in data science, data
engineering, and AI.
Ross joined me backstage at the Future Lab Summit after leading a machine learning primer
for attendees.
Our conversation explores some of the knowledge gaps that Insight has identified in folks
coming out of academia, and how they structured their program to address them.
If you find yourself looking to make this transition, you'll definitely want to check
out this episode.
And now onto the show.
Alright everyone, I am backstage at the NYU Skurball Center, where the Future Lab Group
is holding the AI Summit, and I am here with Ross Fadley, who is the AI lead at Insight
Data.
Ross, welcome to this weekend machine learning and AI.
Hi, pleasure to be here.
It's great to have you on the show.
Why don't we get started by having you tell me a little bit about your background and
how you got interested and involved in AI?
Sure.
So I have a background in physics, actually.
So when I was in undergrad, I was really passionate about physics, and ended up going and
do a PhD focusing on astrophysics.
Okay.
And that time really drove me to understand and appreciate data.
So during that I was really focused on doing Bayesian machine learning because we had relatively
small amounts of data, but we needed to quantify the uncertainty of our models.
And so that I kind of just got forced into because of how I went down my academic path,
but it made me really excited by what was happening in machine learning and some of the
new emerging technologies on that front.
Awesome.
I have talked to a ton of folks who came into machine learning and AI by way of physics.
Yeah.
And one of the interesting things that happened when I was a postdoc, most recently at NYU,
I was jointly appointed with the computer science group with Rob Fergis, who won the
image net competition while I was there working with him.
And so it was like a really neat opportunity to apply some of these emerging AI like deep
learning models in the context of astronomy, which was really exciting times.
Oh nice.
And how did he win that before after Matt Zeeler?
Oh, he won it with him.
A with?
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
So this is our second year here at the Future Lab Summit.
And last year, I keep saying year.
And Steve keeps saying year on stage, it was actually only six months ago.
But so the second time here, and last time I got to interview Matt and hear a little bit
about his story.
So you are in the same group.
Yeah.
So Matt was a PhD student with Rob while I was Rob's postdoc.
Okay.
It was interesting because I was jointly appointed with the physics group.
And so we were doing a little bit of crosstalk in terms of like bringing some computer science
applications to astronomy, but also leveraging some astrophysical knowledge when we're applying
some of these techniques.
Okay.
Awesome.
And now insight data.
What does insight data do?
So insight is a professional education company.
Okay.
We run free seven week fellowship programs to help people transition into careers in data.
Oh wow.
Yeah.
Specifically, it's focused around.
Did you just say free?
Yeah.
That's amazing.
So free to the fellows.
Historically, it came out of the fact that like, there were really smart people in academia.
And companies needed like data scientists, but didn't know how to find them.
Yeah.
But like these smart people were there and they didn't know how to connect.
So our founder, Jake Clampka, realized that there is this mismatch and formed the company.
But of course, academics aren't, you know, able to pay a fee for education because they're
usually pretty, you know, strapped for cash.
So we find it really important to like make these free for the fellows and the company's
sponsor of the program basically.
Okay.
And what is the typical fellow profile?
It depends on the program. So in data science, it's typically a PhD in a quantitative field.
So it does span traditional backgrounds like physics, math, computer science.
But it also spans into, you know, biological sciences, even things like political science
and linguistics, kind of a mix.
So that's our data science program.
But we also run a data engineering program, a health data program.
And I'm in charge of the AI program that we run here in New York.
Okay.
AI program and the data science program are distinct.
Yeah.
That's correct.
So the AI program is a little bit different in terms of backgrounds because we see this
mismatch of what people want in the industry and where people are coming from.
So often people in industry are looking for two broad buckets.
One is like the AI engineer.
So someone who has extreme engineering talent, maybe knows the machine learning parts quite
well, but maybe not to the same degree that someone who's been doing research for a long
time.
Right.
And so the AI is the idea that the AI program accommodates both this machine learning engineer
and someone who's more traditionally like a data scientist, but focused on AI or that
the data scientist goes through the data science program and the AI program kind of fills
the rest of the need for this around this engineering role.
Yeah.
No, it's more of the former.
So we do see.
I thought for sure I was wrong as I was.
Well, you nailed it quite right, actually, because like some of these deep learning models
are quite specific, quite new and really cutting edge, the AI program tries to bring in people
from that group of research into the program, which is not necessarily true for data science
more generally.
Okay.
Got it.
And so the program is kind of like this, you know, farm team feeder program kind of things
specifically for academics that's not like your typical coding boot camp or something
like that, where you're taking people off the street and training them up.
So we actually do admit people from industry, but only for our currently at least for our
data engineering and AI programs, again, on this engineering front for AI, for instance,
some of the best engineers are people in industry.
We've had people from teams like Google, LinkedIn, Salesforce, top engineers who want to move
more into AI come through our programs.
Okay.
Oh, wow.
And so you talked a little bit about it.
Some of the missing, the things that the industry is looking for that are missing at like
a really high level.
Can you go a little bit more deep on that like what?
What are the things that you're really trying to teach these folks as they come through
the program?
Well, often the people who are coming into our program have like 95 to 99% of the technical
skills you need.
So they often come in with an experience say deep in computer vision and are well suited
for those types of roles, but they don't know like the trade-offs and how people are actually
using this in practice on real teams.
And so one of the things we do is to help give them this idea of not only like scoping
and appropriately like doing a project that speaks to the type of work that they're going
to be doing in industry, but we bring in top mentors from teams who tell them about the
work they're doing, help them understand what's like the most important thing and what
are the critical challenges they're currently facing.
And that sort of information is something that you it's really hard to get isolated on
your own in a black box.
And is it like project oriented or is it more traditional just you know model by model
or field by field?
Yeah, we find it's really important to not have like coursework or book work.
It's all project oriented so the fellows execute a significant like data science, data engineering,
AI projects during their time at insight and it's done in a collaborative way.
So it's a very collaborative environment.
It's full time so everyone's together in a room, super smart people and they leverage
off each other's knowledge because one person might be a deep expert in NLP.
The other one may know nothing about it when they start talking they learn much more
rapidly than if you they were told to like go off in a corner and read a book.
And how many people in a given cohort?
So there's roughly about 30 people in each cohort.
We're currently in four cities and we run those three times a year.
So that's gives you a little bit of a scale there.
What cities?
So we started out in Palo Alto in 2012, are in New York, Boston and Seattle and we also run
a remote program.
I could have guessed those right.
And are you expanding more cities or are you adding more programs like what's the expansion
plan if any?
Yeah, that's a great question.
So to give you a little understanding of our previous expansion, we kicked off New
York in 2014, along with a new program in data engineering.
So we started just data science.
We then launched Boston focused on health data.
That was also in 2014 I believe.
And then most recently Seattle and data science.
This last year was our first launch of the AI program, which started off in Palo Alto,
ran for the first time in New York over the summer.
So that's like our historical growth.
We're planning to move into new cities in the coming future, possibly in international
locations and thinking heavily about new programs as they come up in industry.
The goal really is like to live on this edge of the mismatch between what companies need
and are struggling to find good people in and where there's a gap in terms of talent
and how can we bridge that gap?
It strikes me that it's, it strikes me that you have to address some of these challenges
and this kind of impedance mismatch via projects.
But also it's challenging to do so because you don't know what you don't know kind of
problem, right?
And so how do you supplement the project work with, you know, the things that they need
to know or is it just, you know, go bang your head against the wall and figure it out
and when you finally figure out what you don't know, we'll be here to answer the question
for you.
Yeah.
So as program directors, as the people who run these programs, their job is to ensure
that they have the resources to overcome technical hurdles as they approach them.
We encourage them to first dive into it and hit the walls themselves, but then just
basically give them the right tools and guidance to overcome those technical hurdles.
Some of that might become, come from us, like as people who run the programs, but we have
over 1200 people who have gone through our programs currently and they come back and
regularly mentor the people in the program, not only on the technical front, but also
like what is it like to be a data scientist at X company and so on?
Very cool.
And so is the program run as a single project, kind of like a capstone thing or is it a
series of smaller projects?
Yeah, it is just a single project because we want it to have a significant amount of
depth that it's like, impressive to see what someone can actually accomplish in just three
or four weeks' time.
Later on, the program, the fellows are going around and presenting this work as a way
to warm start the interview process with companies that are interested in meaning, sure.
And are the projects things that they work on individually or in as part of teams, understanding
that there's collaboration and people helping each other, but do I, you know, are folks
grouped into smaller teams to work on things?
Yeah, it's really individual based because ultimately these people are hoping to launch
their new career and when they're going to meet a new hiring manager and having some
of their first interviews, being able to talk about something they concretely did and
not having mixed signals of who did what, it's really important.
Okay.
I guess I was wondering if, you know, if you had any startups come out of this, like if
someone, you know, if teams, I guess, or maybe if individuals, like, puts, built something
as part of this program and decided, well, you know, forget industry, I'm going to, well,
forget a job, I'm going to start a company around this thing that I did.
Yeah, there's been a few examples of that.
We're seeing more of it sort of come about, especially with the AI program in particular,
because there's a new sort of green space that's being created around AI startups.
And so we're working closely with fellows who are interested in launching these new
initiatives, as well as ones who want something like a more traditional path.
Okay.
And so if you could give a list of folks who, or if you could give folks who, you know,
are similarly situated in academia or have, you know, strong backgrounds in the theory
of machine learning and AI, but not the practical experience, if you can give those folks a list
of, you know, you tell me how long, one, three, five, ten things to go, you know, figure
out or learn about in lieu of an experience like insight, like what's on that list?
Often for people, especially in pure academics, a little bit about tooling, so some of them
might be using a language like MATLAB or R or other languages that maybe aren't sort
of industry standard, making sure that you have the tooling to do that.
Secondly is sort of like the techniques.
Often when you're doing a PhD, you get a book learning of, you know, the broad landscape
of, you know, machine learning, deep learning, and then you dive deeply on one specific model.
But often when you're on these teams, you want to be able to speak to more broad topics.
So not just knowing one type of NLP, but knowing the broad spectrum in a more deep way.
And so the way you might be able to do that is to actually take on concrete projects
with not just clean data sets that come from like Kaggle or some machine learning depository,
but actually real live data that either you scraped or you've gotten from like a messy
dump of data and dealing with those problems that come up when you're trying to implement
something that's more realistic that companies have to deal with.
Okay.
So two things, anything, and that's consistent with, so yesterday I was interviewing the
startups that are part of the AI Nexus lab and I asked them all like what are the biggest
challenges they're experiencing and your latter point dealing with, you know, acquiring
and annotating and generally dealing with messy data is was universally like the number
one challenge that they face and sounds like it's not just startups.
It's that's what industry folks are telling you as well and anything else beyond those
two.
I think a lot of it too is like knowing how data fits in terms of strategy for an organization.
I think a lot of people who are academics think, oh, you just go and do your machine learning
model and check that box.
But in fact, like being able to evaluate how core to the company's mission where work
is and what opportunities you're going to have is a very challenging space and often
it'll affect how happy you are, how will you fit into a particular job.
So on that front, it's more about getting out, trying to find ways to network and learn
more about, learn more from people in industry and get a sense of like what does it mean
to be at a big enterprise company who's focused on NLP versus a startup that's doing computer
vision stuff.
Those are broadly different motivations and problems that those, those organizations
have.
Awesome.
Well, what's next for insight?
We talked a little bit about expansion, but any other, you know, programs or things
that you'd want folks to know about?
Yeah, we're currently thinking of ways that we might be able to work more closely with
some of the teams that we work with, specifically around like helping them overcome technical
hurdles because the depth of technical knowledge on our teams is quite strong and we do a lot
of like in-house research in order to stay on top of the type of work that our fellows
are doing.
Okay.
Interesting.
How big is that research team?
Well, so everyone's sort of like all the technical team members at insight do their own like
either projects or keeping up with the latest journals.
So it's not like a strongly unified team.
It's more like everyone knows that they want it and they're excited to do it because frankly
almost all the technical team members were people who went through the program.
And so they themselves are very excited by this type of work and are eager to do it.
Okay.
Awesome.
And work and folks learn more and like what's the, is there a link to the application or
you know, what's the process for folks that are interested?
Yeah.
You can find all the information on our website insight data science.com.
There's links to all of our programs including the white papers, which actually do a really
great job of like laying out what is the difference between data science, what is the difference
between data engineering, what is the difference between AI and all those things.
Right.
And a lot of people, especially from academia and other places like that is a hard thing
to parse and it's still like kind of a hard thing to parse for a lot of people in general.
Right.
So great information there, including our blog posts, which give you a sense of like the
type of work fellows do.
Okay.
And then the applications, we run these programs roughly three times a year.
They can go to the apply page, simple web form.
And then there's next steps if the application seems like it's good fit.
Cool.
That sounds like an amazing opportunity for folks.
Yeah.
I think so.
Awesome.
Well, thanks so much Ross for taking the time to chat with me.
I enjoyed learning about the program.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Awesome.
All right, everyone.
That's our show for today.
Thanks so much for listening and for your continued feedback and support.
For more information on Ross, insight data or any of the topics covered in this episode,
head on over to twomolei.com slash talk slash 68.
We hope you've enjoyed our NYU Future Labs AI Summit series.
If you need to catch up on any of the episodes, visit twomolei.com slash AI Nexus Lab 2.
Of course, you can send along your feedback or questions via Twitter to act twomolei or
at Sam Charington or leave a comment or write on the show notes or series pages.
Thanks again to Future Labs for their sponsorship of this series.
For more information on the program, visit futurelabs.nyc.
And of course, thank you once again for listening and catch you next time.
