Hello and welcome to another episode of Twimble Talk, the podcast where I interview interesting
people doing interesting things in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm your host Sam Charrington.
This week on the podcast features a series of conversations with speakers from the AI
Summit in New York City.
The theme of that conference and this series is AI in the Enterprise and I think you'll
find a really interesting mix of both technical and case study oriented discussions this week.
Please note that on Wednesday December 13th we'll be holding our last Twimble online
meet-up of the year.
Bring your thoughts on the top machine learning and AI stories of 2017 for our discussion
segment and for our main presentation Bruno Gensalves will be discussing the paper understanding
deep learning requires rethinking generalization by Shi Yuan Zhang from MIT and Google Brain
and others.
You can find more details and register at twimbleai.com slash meet-up.
Today's show continues our discussion of Enterprise AI with a conversation with Terry
Deroong's chief digital officer at BNP Paribus a multinational bank headquartered in Paris.
Terry joined me to discuss how BNP uses AI and some of the opportunities that have arisen
with the changing artificial intelligence landscape.
We also discuss the innovation process that BNP is used to introduce AI to the bank via
what they call innovation incubators or factories.
The notes for this show can be found at twimbleai.com slash talk slash 81.
This AI summit series is brought to you by our friends at IBM Power Systems.
IBM Power Systems offers servers designed for mission critical applications and emerging
workloads including artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, advanced
analytics, and high performance computing.
IBM Power Systems benefit from a wide range of open technologies, many stemming from
collaboration with fellow open power foundation members and their design to deliver performance
efficiently, whether deployed in private, public, or hybrid clouds.
To learn more about the IBM Power System AC-922 platform for Enterprise AI, visit twimbleai.com
slash IBM Power.
And now onto the show.
All right, everyone.
I am on the line with Terry Derung's.
Terry is the Chief Digital Officer at BNP Paribus Wealth Management.
And he is, we're connecting today, he's in Paris.
And Terry, I'm very grateful for you to spend some time with us.
My pleasure.
Absolutely.
So, all right, Terry, why don't we get started by having you introduce yourself to the
audience and tell us a little bit about your background and how you came to be interested
and involved in artificial intelligence?
Sure.
Today, I'm the Chief Digital Officer for BNP Paribus Management.
As you mentioned, yeah, I have a very long story around digital since I'm busy with digital
topics since almost 25 years when the CDO title was not yet imagined and already working
for many digital solutions on public sites and secure sites.
So a very long background.
And of course, as a CDO, yeah, you are looking for the new technologies and all the opportunities
that can be raised by them.
Right.
And for those that aren't familiar with BNP Paribus, can you give a little bit of an overview
of the firm?
BNP Paribus is what we call a universal bank.
So today, we are about 190,000 employees in a bit more than 80 countries coming back
to West Management.
So we are part, of course, from what we call the investment solution.
So that's a big division from the group.
But West Management, luckily for us, I should say, we are pretty small.
We are about 6,600 employees in 21 countries, managing a lot of assets, about 360 billion
asset under management, very efficient.
But what is very nice is that our size is pretty small, which allows us to behave as
a kind of startup inside a very big group that can be paralyzed.
Okay.
That's a big startup.
Yeah.
Sure.
But yeah, compared to the size of the enterprise.
Right.
And so certainly in an organization like BNP Paribus, there are lots of opportunities to
apply machine learning and artificial intelligence, how do you think about those various opportunities
and what does that landscape look like for you?
So as I like to say, first, the CDO is not for a chief digital officer, it's more for
a chief disruption officer.
Kind of.
Kind of correctly, right?
Yeah.
So I'm a gentle disruptor or a disruptive gentleman, nevertheless, my duty is really
to transform the company to support the different countries in that way for us management.
So looking to all the opportunities, artificial intelligence is at our side a very hot topic
on which we are working.
I would say it's a kind of old story, if I may say so, as for, for example, robot advisory
is a very well-known topic for financial and especially wealth management.
And we have already a robot advisory since almost three years now in place.
Even if we we provide the advice not directly to the clients, but to our relationship manager
because we are a human based, let's say, commercial approach, but that kind of topic exists
already since long at our side.
And it goes together with all the challenges that you could have on big data, not because
it's big, but because you have to analyze that amount of data.
And artificial intelligence is really something very important in that area.
And many more opportunities knowing that we strongly believe that voice will be the new
interface for the future.
And when you say voice, you need an LP, so natural language processing, you need a semantic
analysis, and all that is supported by artificial intelligence.
And finally, the world is changing is very challenging in terms of, let's say, profit
and the way we can manage the business.
So we have a very strong focus on being efficient.
And there you connect to the other topic, which is our APA, so the robotic process automation,
which is also related to artificial intelligence.
So there is a lot of things ongoing, a lot of opportunities on which we are today
working pretty hard.
You mentioned some of the long history of AI in general and even prior projects at the
bank.
What is it that makes AI hot right now for an organization like yours?
I mean, it's certainly, a lot of the technologies have been around for a while, and in fact, banks
in general have been early adopters of both machine learning and some of the types of technologies
we associate with AI today.
What do you think is, or do you think there's something different about what's happening
right now and what is that?
There are several factors, so regarding in the Paris-Barréne-Barréne-Barréne-Barréne-Barréne-Barréne-Barréne-Barréne management,
we have launched the digital transformations five years ago and to be very transparent
the first focus was really to build the foundations because yes, there is management,
it is there traditional, it's the same for us inside there in
five years ago. And to be very transparent, the first focus was really to build
the foundations because, yes, West Management is very traditional. That's the
same for us, since I'd be in Bebaba, meaning that as we have a very human-based
model, that made that digital was a bit far away. So it was really, the first
focus was really to build up good foundations, which are very classic. And once
those foundations were achieved, then we had the capacity to accelerate and really
let's say move into the more disruptive area that we could imagine by building
different factories in the countries. So today we have three factories, which
are really incubators and accelerators for us, allowing to work directly with
clients, build up some MVP, so minimum viable products that we can test in real
situation with clients. And then for the successful ones, move to what we call
the industrialization, so really to make the deployments from those new
services or solutions to all our clients. Having factories now, I know as to
really move forward into more, let's say, specific topics. And artificial
intelligence is one of them. Today we are, for example, working with the
factory that we have in Singapore, around the the classic chatbot that
supported by artificial intelligence, but also voice bots, because we have a
strong belief that we need relationship managers, but we want them to be
relationship managers 2.0. So augmented relationship managers. And for that, we
see a lot of opportunities in artificial intelligence to really increase their
capacity to be straight to the point, more accurate, get rid of some, let's say
administrative tasks where the added value is not there and give really to them
the capacity to better reply to clients, have more time to spend with their
clients, and take really all the most that we can offer in the other
relationship in terms of expertise, and really let's say the most important
discussion that they could have with their clients about their assets and
artificial intelligence, the opportunities we see is really to expand their
capacities. That's a very strong belief that we have. So these factories that
you're describing are digital factories, and it sounds like what's making,
sounds like a big part of what's making AI timely for you is that you're better
positioned to do something with it, right? The bank is built out capacity from
a digital perspective that positions it to take advantage of AI, and in a way
that it maybe wasn't able to do at least broadly years ago. Yeah, what has
changed really a lot with the factories is that we have now the capacity in the
way we manage your factories to work on business use case. So we are not looking
we are not an IT company, so more or less I should say I don't care about the
technology. I'm interested by the opportunities that we could have for the
clients to provide them added value, and by the way to do that we need some
technologies. So that's really the shift that we have. Digital is not any more
inside Ben-Bedariba, a kind of geek island where some strange people on
digital try to influence the way the business should be done. We have shift
that back really to business and when we take initiative in a factory, first
we do that in the startup mode with a lot of co-design and pure
iGiStream approach. The product owner is an expert from the business coming
for his expertise and we are able to help him in terms of methodology and so on,
but he's really focusing on the clients and the way to provide added value.
So that's really a big shift because it allows really to experiment new
approach, new way of working and new ideas, really connected to clients because
we have clients that work with us inside the factories from the very initial
IED concept until the MVP and tests really in production, real situation with real
clients and then failure suddenly becomes an option. So we have now the
capacity to really take a subject, try to find the best way to address. If it's
not working, okay, we find another way, we change the technology, we change the
startup with which we are working or we change the concept itself and we
can adapt a lot. Artificial intelligence is, as I will explain at the summit
beginning of December, is really an unknown area. We know that there are a lot
of opportunities but it's very difficult to really see what will be the real
complexity to have that. What are really the added value for the customers and
of course for the bank. So being able to experiment that very quickly while not
having a prototype disconnected from the real life but reaching really a product
that we can test is, yeah, it's key. If you want really to explore artificial
intelligence, do you find that there are any ways in which AI has required you to
evolve your factory model or your your agile methodologies MVP approach. So far
the the way we work inside the the factory is really perfect for artificial
intelligence. So today for, for example, working on the voice bot to expand the
capacities from the relationship managers. We do that with a very short
sprint or short cycle, delivering something that we we can test, evaluate,
adapt and then move to the next step. And that in a very fast approach, so it's
when we we work on MVP, usually it's it's about four months to really deliver
something that we can put into the hands of our customers. And the capacity
that we have to adapt constantly is the best approach in terms of discovering
something pretty new as artificial intelligence, especially when it comes to
an LP semantic analysis, which are really for us new technologies, new ways of
thinking. And having that faculty to really adapt all the time is crucial. Can
you tell us a little bit about the chatbot and voice bot projects that you've
launched. So the story started in June this year with the International
Hackathon, which is organized by the Paribag group. And in which West Management
is very active. Yeah, so we have participated to the the hackathon in seven
countries for West Management. So meaning having a real West Management challenge
to address. And the challenge at the start for Singapore was chatbot,
globally speaking. But during the weekend of the hackathon, and I had a pleasure
to spend 48 hours really on the floor with the startups, because of all the
discussions and so on, there had been one startup who moved from the pure
classic chatbot approach to the voice bots and having the ideas to have to
hook man the capacity from the relationship manager. And they will, they
want the one, sorry, the hackathon session in Singapore. Because of that, we
took them and then okay, when someone wins with West Management in the hackathon,
it's because we want to do something right after. So come with us in the
factory work with us. And we want to reach the MVP with you. And by the way,
it's the first of December. It's at what we call the demo days. So it's the big
final of the international hackathon. It could be in Paris. We truly hope that
our startup from Singapore will be a winner in that final date where all the
startups from all around the world will compete for a final price. Okay, okay.
Can you give me a little bit more detail about what, what do you mean when you
save voice bot? What is the envision functionality of this voice bot? I will
show the pitch from the startup at the summit. But to summarize, it's really in
real-time conversation between the clients and the relationship manager. The
conversation would be listened through NLB. It will be processed. We will
detect the intense of the clients. Compute a reply. Not a reply that we will
give to the clients, but a reply that will be displayed on the workstation of
their relationship manager to guide in directly. So if the client says, I need to
do a transfer. If I simplify on the screen in real-time, there will be, let's say,
the summary of the transaction requests and the button for the relationship
manager to execute. If the client is asking questions around a product or
something very specific in terms of assets, we will find a reply and give all
the information elements directly to the relationship manager. So, and of
course, when you are doing transaction remotely with clients, we have to
follow many rules for the regulators and the legal context and the
discussion will be listened and let's say highlights and guidance will be
provided to the relationship manager in real-time again on the screen. So pay
attention to that. You forgot to say that and so on, so to be sure that
everything goes very smoothly. And behind, with the capacity to execute what is
agreed during the conversation. Okay, that's very interesting. I recently
attended an event in New York that NYU Future Labs AI Summit. NYU Future
Labs is a, they've got an accelerator program called AI Nexus Lab that's
incubates AI startups and one of the startups and I actually did a podcast with
them that was went out a few weeks ago or so a couple of weeks ago. There's a
company called Second Mind and I think they're doing just what you're
describing. They, you kind of transient listening to a conversation and then
it's almost like the old screen pop from a, you know, a call center type of
workstation where it's, in their case, the demo that they showed, you know, you
could be talking about, you could talk about general topics and it would push
the agent, you know, Wikipedia articles or directions, Google maps, things
like that. But, you know, there, I think the market that they're going after is
just the one that you're describing with this voice spot where you would be
tying it into business systems and really, I guess what I'm interpreting
here is kind of the next evolution of almost call center, you know, software that
is kind of guiding someone through a conversation, but here you're trying to
kind of augment the resources that they have it, or augment their ability to
access, you know, a broad set of resources, you know, while still trying to help
them kind of guide the conversation towards some set of goals. Yeah, exactly, and
at the same time, as we display information to the relationship manager, the way
he will use them will give the feedback group to the artificial intelligence,
and the system must become more and more accurate, and there's really the
feedback group to enrich the system. So it's pretty powerful. How do you think
this changes the relationship between those relationship managers and their
clients or more broadly the bank and the clients? So again, our objective is
really to deliver the best quality to the clients, the best added value to the
accrued shop on the request it could have, and so on very fast. So many topics
to be addressed. So basically the relation between the client and his relationship
manager will not change. So they will still discuss and so on. It's just that we
will have a relationship manager to be faster, more accurate, have a broad
vision on everything that could influence his discussion with the client. He has
right now on the phone without any preparation. So that's really what is
very interesting in that area with artificial intelligence. What have been some
of the, what can you describe, some of the technology involved in the way you've
implemented this and maybe some of the challenges that you've run into? I
must say that NLB is the door to door for us. Let's say Kias said that we need, I've
been really impressed by the start of the Winstead Yakuton session Singapore
because they have developed their own NLB processing. And I must say that I've
been amazed by the accuracy that they can reach the capacity of learning from
the system to adapt to the different accent, different languages, and really
their capacity to in final, they say have a kind of personal NLP
client. So as you can hear, I'm not English native. So I have an accent which
of course could impact the way the artificial intelligence can understand me
when I'm speaking. And the way they manage that, they can really adapt the
understanding really on the very personal base. So they will even a real
French with a heavy French accent in English, will still be understood by the
system. So that's really something very important
because we need accuracy to detect the intents from the clients and then the
artificial intelligence part who pays from the intent find the best
reply to display to the relationship manager and have the learning capacity
with the feedback is the final, let's say a module that we need.
And behind that's all the topics to get access to all the data that we have
inside the bank to really take the most because artificial intelligence
without perfect input is kind of empty brain. You have to
to feed that and data is really crucial. Luckily, as a bank, we have a lot of
data to share with that. So we can really put a lot inside the brain.
And then it's a question to, let's say, to make the way of thinking,
really fitting the targets we are following.
When you describe this startup in Singapore, is this an internal
startup that I envision this as an internal hackathon and this
startup were bank employees or is it an external startup company?
No, it was a real hackathon with external startups with a set of
startups which were from the very young startups to the ones which are already
known on the market and more mature. So it was a full-fledged hackathon.
Oh, got it, got it. And is this what's this startup called?
So it's a Korean startup named Kudadjust, very young startup,
very promising. Okay. And do you have a sense for
some of the technologies, you know, the technology decisions that they've had
to make and building out this platform? And, you know, maybe some,
you know, I guess one of the questions that comes up frequently for me
in talking about chat bots and voice bots and the like is whether they're
building on top of some existing, you know, third-party
software or whether they've built it all from scratch and what some of the
trade-offs there are. Kudadjust is a mix. So they have developed their own
NLP and their own artificial intelligence engine. And then they extend
some of the capacities by using, let's say, other solutions.
I'm really sorry, I could not name those solutions because it's really
added the periphery from that. But they are really, they their own
their own technology. That makes them pretty interesting.
If, yeah, perhaps I should not say that, but if our topic was to make
Alexa like all the others, it's still interesting, of course.
Nevertheless, it's like the others. And we have a strong belief that there are
opportunities to really be different on the market for
wealth management at the best, of course, for the clients, but
really to take the most from those opportunities
is not by copying what everyone is doing or at least not all the time.
In that area, to explore at best, yeah, we don't have to to follow all the time
what the others are doing. Right. Are there other
opportunities on your roadmap that you can speak to and how you
further apply AI to wealth management? Yeah, I can also speak about
big data. So not on, let's say, how to manage big data with
that do for other technologies, but really how to take the most from all those
information in the best way. And on that, we have again, with a startup
this time in Paris, we have worked on a proof of concept and we are now working
on the MVP itself to really use capacity based on artificial intelligence,
which supports the way that the data scientists and
data analysts or classical ones are exploring the data to find the path
they are looking for. For example, to detect a based on model that
we can after apply to many clients, why that client is more interested in
advisory while another is more execution only or any other question that we
can have, hot topics like attrition, client retention,
to really dig into the data in a very deep manner.
Unit tools and artificial intelligence is really a very interesting area to
support that. Okay. And what's that company? So that one
was a DreamCraft. It's more about the neural all approach on the data
to connect all the different topics that you could export to to find
really the common bad about specific behavior that you would like to
analyze. And you said what kind of approach?
No, no. Is it French? French, perhaps? No, it's
Neuron? Neuron? Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry.
No, no, no, no, French. I wouldn't want to have to do the
the entire interview in French. So
Okay, so they're helping, they've got some technology that you can apply to,
it sounds like the, you know, your various data lakes and
and big data repositories that helps you better kind of understand
that uses AI to help you better understand what
information assets are within those environments and
maybe help you understand how to best use them. Yeah, that's the idea.
So the way they manage that as well, they are not on the
let's say the data lake and big data technology itself. It's really the way
they analyze the data and the way they translate that into
let's say factors and items that can be understood by
common marketers. Right. I hope that there will be not too many
marketers listen to me because they will hate me, but yeah,
data can be so complex that you have really to find a way to
represent that clearly. So what are the main factors which
influence the results and that part is based on the artificial
intelligence inside Dreamcork and it's pretty efficient so
it's very interesting to explore. Okay, it sounds like a really
interesting area in the early days of data lakes. There was a lot
of a lot of the effort went into like trying to manually create
these data catalogs that would help a marketer or a line of
business person understand what data is available to them. But
there's just so much data. It seems like applying AI to that
problem of keeping that data catalog up to date and even
automatically making recommending insights that could come
from the data that you have is an interesting opportunity
for a large organization. Yeah, exactly. And also,
surprisingly, you also learn about the quality of your data.
But it's a different story. We have been very surprised that
for some exploration, we made one of the main factor was
being male or female, which was on that topic totally
kind of nonsense. Yeah, yeah. And in fact, we have seen that
there was a mistake somewhere and in fact for many many
clients, we did not have the information if it was a
madam or a sir and so on. And then so we we have corrected that.
So we have, of course, the information in one of our system,
but the way the data lake was feed, there was a mistake and
that information was sometimes lost. So we improved the
quality of the data lake by working with the solution.
So was the just to make sure I understand the issue here was
the issue that gender was in fact very predictive, but you
didn't have that data for a lot of your records or that you
you ran some analysis and found that gender, you know, was
predictive, but it really shouldn't have been. And it was,
you know, there was really something else going on that you
had to identify. Exactly. It's a the the fact that the
gender was a was very important in the result was just a
nonsense. Yeah. And so what was the underlying issue?
Was it was gender correlated with something else that,
you know, or was, you know, just something very very broken in
the process. So it was broken in the process so that that's
the reason why I meant that equality. Because in fact, let's say
we had a kind of bug in the process to feed the data lake,
which made that for many clients, the gender was not
filled in fact. So it was in the, let's say, the the main
systems, but when we take the data to put that in the data lake
something happened that the gender was just disappearing
for 40% of the clients. Oh, wow. Okay. So based on that, we
we have found that that issue we have corrected it of
groups. And then the model made more sense because suddenly
gender was not a factor anymore. Okay, make sense.
Well, Terry, can you maybe help us wind things up? Do you have any
advice that you give to that you'd give to other, you know,
either, you know, CDOs at other organizations that are trying
to figure out how to fit AI into their portfolio or perhaps even
to, you know, companies that want to work with organizations
like yours in terms of, you know, the types of things you need
or things you're looking for. If I have some some advice,
it's really to focus on the use case. Always great advice.
Yes, really do not start with the technology business will must be
really in the driving seat based on a business use case to
achieve. Otherwise, you will, you will be lost in the topic.
It's too wide. It's too complex. It's very often too new.
So it must be very pragmatic. I want to achieve that in terms of
business. And then just in brackets, just a question to find the right
technology or the right partners to drive there. Second advice,
if you are not working on artificial intelligence, well,
you should, because yeah, especially for the banks, but for many
other companies, there is a strong war against cost to be more
efficient, more accurate, deliver the best quality,
at the best price and so on. So yeah, artificial intelligence
is a for sure part of the reply. So you have to work on that.
It's about your future for your company and all the business that you could
do for sure. And I think, yeah, that's my two best advice I could give.
Now, perhaps the third one, yeah, baby steps. Don't try to put
artificial intelligence for the whole company in one's experiments
learn, because there is a lot to learn. And artificial intelligence
area is totally different from what you usually manage in terms of technologies.
So the best approach is really to try, fail, try again, adapt and so on.
So experiment is, yeah, one of the best advice I can give also.
Great. Well, Terry, thank you so much for taking the time to chat with me.
I really appreciate it. And you know, I've learned a ton about what you're
up to and it's some really interesting stuff. So thank you.
My pleasure was really happy to discuss with you.
All right, everyone, that's our show for today. Thanks so much for listening
and for your continued feedback and support. For more information on Terry,
or any of the topics covered in this episode, head on over to twimlai.com slash
talk slash 81. To follow along with the AI Summit series,
visit twimlai.com slash AI Summit. Of course, you are encouraged to send
along your feedback or questions to us, either by leaving a note
right on the show notes page or via Twitter at twimlai or at Sam
Charrington. Thanks again to IBM Power for their sponsorship
of this series. For more information about the IBM Power Systems
platform for enterprise AI, visit twimlai.com slash
IBM Power. Thanks once again for listening and catch you next time.
